website/docs/reference/datasources/querying-google-sheets.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Google Sheets

This page describes how to connect your application to your Google Sheets account and query your spreadsheets.

## Connect to Google Sheets

To add a Google Sheets datasource, click the (**+**) sign in the **Explorer** tab next to **Datasources**. On the next screen, select the **Google Sheets** button. Your datasource is created and you are taken to a screen to configure its settings.

### Scope

![](/img/google_sheets_scope.png)

The **Scope** setting defines what type of privileges your app has while querying your spreadsheets. Use this option to allow the minimum necessary privileges for your app's function to reduce the risk to your data.

- **Read/Write | Selected Google Sheets**: Your app only has read and write access to the spreadsheets that it creates. Spreadsheets on the Google account created by other means aren't visible or mutable by your queries.

- **Read/Write | All Google Sheets**: Your app has read and write access to all spreadsheets on your Google account, regardless of how or when they were created.

- **Read Files | All Google Sheets**: Your app has read-only access to all spreadsheets on your Google account, regardless of how or when they were created.

### Save and authorize

Click the **Save and Authorize** button after selecting the **Scope**. You'll be directed to the Google OAuth screen to choose the Google account whose spreadsheets you’d like to access.

On the next screen, click **Allow** to grant the Appsmith app permission to view and edit files based on the scope.

## Create queries

<figure>
  <img src="/img/google-sheets-query-page.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring a query from the query screen."/>
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring a query from the query screen.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

You can write [queries](https://docs.appsmith.com/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database/query-settings) to fetch or write data to Google Sheets by selecting the **+ New Query**  button on the Google Sheets datasource page, or by clicking (**+**) next to **Queries/JS** in the **Explorer** tab and selecting your Google Sheets datasource. You'll be brought to a new query screen where you can configure your request.

## Fetch rows

Use the **Fetch Many** operation with the **Sheet rows** entity to pull your spreadsheet records into your app. You can configure this query with the fields below to fetch records that meet specific conditions.

### Filter format

Under **Filter Format**, you can choose one of two styles of selecting a subset of your data:

- **Where Clause**: fetch records based on conditions. Also enables sorting and pagination.
- **Cell Range**: fetch a block of spreadsheet cells, defined by spreadsheet-style notation (like "A2:B7").

#### Where clause

These fields enable you to return records conditionally, sort on multiple levels, and set up pagination.

##### Filter and sort

In the **Filter by** fields, you can build expressions that return records when a column value meets some criteria. You can evaluate them using `in`, `not in`, `contains`, and logic operators.

The **Add Condition** button adds another simple single-line expression. **Add Group Condition** adds a nested expression with multiple levels of And/Or statements.

In the **Sort By** field, you can choose a column to use for sorting your results. The **Add Parameter** button adds multiple levels of sorting.

##### Pagination

To limit the amount of records you receive at once, use **Pagination Limit**.

**Pagination Offset** allows skipping a given number of records before returning results; these two fields together enable you to implement pagination for large datasets.

To learn more about using paginating your data in tables, read [offset-based pagination](/reference/widgets/table#offset-based-pagination).

#### Cell range

If you need to select contiguous block of cells based on their location in the spreadsheet instead of their values, use the **Cell Range** filter format. This mode doesn't allow conditions, sorting, or pagination.

This mode uses Google Sheets' row number and column letter syntax (for example, `A1-B14`) to select cells. Even when the column header row isn't part of your selection, your fetched data still includes the column labels for your selected cells.

---

**Example**: fetch all records from a table `users` on `Sheet1` of `UsersSpreadsheet`, 10 records at a time, and put them into a Table widget `UsersTable`.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/google-sheets-fetch-many.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring a Fetch Many query."/>
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring a Fetch Many query.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

**Setup**: create a query called `FetchUsers` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Fetch Many** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity, and be configured with the spreadsheet and sheet name in their appropriate fields. Set the **Filter Format** to **Where Clause** to access the pagination settings.

This query doesn't require filtering or sorting the data, so **Filter By** and **Sort By** can be left blank.

Set the **Pagination Limit** to 10 to limit the number of records you receive at once.

To continue setting up pagination for your data, you can use your Table widget's `pageOffset` property in the **Pagination Offset** field. To learn more about pagination, read [server-side pagination](#reference/widgets/table#server-side-pagination).

In the **Table Data** property of your Table widget, bind the result of your query:

```javascript
// in the Table Data property of UsersTable
{{ FetchUsers.data }}
```

Your table should fill with data when the query is run.

## Insert a row

Use **Insert** operations to create a new spreadsheet, or to add a new record to an existing spreadsheet.

If your Google Sheets datasource's **Scope** is set to **Read/Write | Selected Google Sheets**, you have to use an insert query to create any spreadsheets that you'd like your app to access.

To insert a record, supply an object in the query's **Row Object** field with keys matching the spreadsheet's column headings.

---

**Example**: create a new record in a table `users` on `Sheet1` of `UsersSpreadsheet`, with columns for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

**Setup**: create your query called `InsertNewUser` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Insert One** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity. Enter the appropriate values for **Spreadsheet**, **Sheet Name**, and **Table Heading Row Index**.

To gather data for the new record, create a [JSON Form](/reference/widgets/json-form) on the canvas called `NewUserForm`. You should already have fields for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

In JSON Form's Submit [button](/reference/widgets/button) properties, configure the **onClick** event to execute your query:

```javascript
// Submit button's onClick event
{{ InsertNewUser.run() }}
```

Once these form fields are filled out, you can add their values to your query in the **Row Object** field like below:

```javascript
// in the Row Object field of your query
{{
  {
    "name": NewUserForm.formData.name,
    "date_of_birth": NewUserForm.formData.date_of_birth,
    "employee_id": NewUserForm.formData.employee_id
  }
}}

```

When the Submit button is clicked, your query is executed and the new record is inserted as the new highest index in your dataset (at the bottom of the spreadsheet).

## Update a row

Use **Update** operations to modify existing records in your spreadsheet.

To update a record, supply an object with updated values in the query's **Row Object** field. Include a `rowIndex` key that matches your original record.

:::caution important
When you update a row, your row object must include a `rowIndex` key with a number to specify which record in the spreadsheet to update. `rowIndex` refers to the index of the record in the array of table records, *not* the record's row number in the spreadsheet.
:::

---

**Example**: modify a record in a table `users` on `Sheet1` of `UsersSpreadsheet`, with columns for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

**Setup**: create your query called `UpdateUser` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Update One** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity. Enter the appropriate values for **Spreadsheet**, **Sheet Name**, and **Table Heading Row Index**. Finally, You should have a [Table widget](/reference/widgets/table) `UsersTable` containing your spreadsheet data from a **Fetch** query.

Create a [JSON Form widget](/reference/widgets/json-form) to use for submitting your updated data. It should come with fields for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

When a row is selected in the table, it would be helpful if the JSON Form's fields pre-filled with the row's existing data. To implement this, match the keys in the JSON Form's **Source Data** property with the values from the table row's cells:

```javascript
// JSON Form's Source Data property
{{
  {
    "name": UsersTable.selectedRow.name,
    "date_of_birth": UsersTable.selectedRow.date_of_birth,
    "employee_id": UsersTable.selectedRow.employee_id
  }
}}
```

In JSON Form's Submit [button](/reference/widgets/button) properties, configure the **onClick** event to execute your query:

```javascript
// Submit button's onClick event
{{ UpdateUser.run() }}
```

To add your modified row data to your query, reference them in its **Row Object** field. You must include the `rowIndex` key in your submission to indicate which record to update. If your data came from a Google Sheets **Fetch** operation, this key was returned in the original response:

```javascript
// in the Row Object field of your query
{{
  {
    "rowIndex": UsersTable.selectedRow.rowIndex, // include the rowIndex key
    "name": NewUserForm.formData.name,
    "date_of_birth": NewUserForm.formData.date_of_birth,
    "employee_id": NewUserForm.formData.employee_id
  }
}}
```

When the Submit button is clicked, your query is executed and the record is updated in your spreadsheet.

## Delete a row

Use **Delete** operations to remove a record from your spreadsheet.

To delete a record, supply the `rowIndex` value of the record to delete. `rowIndex` refers to the index of the record in the array of table records, *not* the record's row number in the spreadsheet.

---

**Example**: delete a record from a spreadsheet `users`.

**Setup**: create your query called `DeleteUser` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Update One** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity. Enter the appropriate values for **Spreadsheet**, **Sheet Name**, and **Table Heading Row Index**. Finally, You should have a [Table widget](/reference/widgets/table) `UsersTable` containing your spreadsheet data from a **Fetch** query.

Create a [Button widget](/reference/widgets/button) on the canvas and update its **Label** to "Delete." Set its **onClick** event to execute your `DeleteUser` query:

```javascript
// in the Delete button's onClick event
{{ DeleteUser.run() }}
```

To delete a record, you need only provide the `rowIndex` of the record to delete. In your `DeleteUser` query's **Row Index** field, bind the value of the selected row of the `UsersTable`:

```javascript
// DeleteUser query's Row Index field
{{ UsersTable.selectedRow.rowIndex }}
```

Now when the button is clicked, the query is run and the corresponding row is deleted from your spreadsheet.

## Operations

**Operation** sets the type of action you want to perform with your query. A "Spreadsheet" is the document, a "Sheet" is a page of a spreadsheet, and "Sheet Rows" are horizontal records in a sheet.

| **Operation**                        | **Description**                           | **Available entities:**       |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **Fetch Details**  | Fetches metadata about a spreadsheet. | Spreadsheet  |
| **Insert One**            | Inserts a single new row into a spreadsheet, or creates a new spreadsheet.|  Sheet Rows<br/>Spreadsheet  |
| **Update One**            | Updates a record in a spreadsheet.        | Sheet Rows |
| **Delete One**            | Deletes a single record, sheet, or spreadsheet. | Sheet Rows<br/>Spreadsheet<br/>Sheet |
| **Fetch Many**        | Fetches records from a spreadsheet, or fetches all existing spreadsheets in your account. | Sheet Rows<br/>Spreadsheet        |
| **Insert Many**      | Inserts several new rows into a spreadsheet. | Sheet Rows |
| **Update Many**      | Updates multiple existing records in a spreadsheet.  | Sheet Rows  |

All the operation types have some of these common fields that identify where in your spreadsheets your query should access:

| **Configuration Field**     | **Description**                                                               |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Entity**                  | Select which entity type you want to query: <br/>**Sheet Rows**: Horizontal records in the spreadsheet.<br/>**Spreadsheet**: Document containing cell matrix.<br/>**Sheet**: A page of a spreadsheet. |
| **Spreadsheet**             | Select which spreadsheet you want to query from.                              |
| **Sheet Name**              | Select which sheet you want to query from the spreadsheet.                    |
| **Table Heading Row Index** | Provide the index of the row in the spreadsheet that contains the headings or labels for your table columns. The first row of the spreadsheet is row 1.                                                     |

## Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing difficulties, you can refer to the [troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/action-errors/) page for assistance.

If you need further support, you can reach out on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/rBTTVJp) or ask questions on the [community forum](https://community.appsmith.com/).

## Further reading

* [Queries](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database/)
* [Table widget](/reference/widgets/table)
* [Form widget](/reference/widgets/form)

Commit message:

fix: commented out / replaced content about unreleased flow (#1123)
References to the [**Scopes**
part](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/datasources/querying-google-sheets#scope)
of the datasource configuration for Google Sheets has been corrected to
reflect the current state of the platform.

Resolves #1121

website/docs/reference/datasources/querying-google-sheets.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Google Sheets

This page describes how to connect your application to your Google Sheets account and query your spreadsheets.

## Connect to Google Sheets

To add a Google Sheets datasource, click the (**+**) sign in the **Explorer** tab next to **Datasources**. On the next screen, select the **Google Sheets** button. Your datasource is created and you are taken to a screen to configure its settings.

### Scope

<!-- HIDDEN BY FEATURE FLAG

![](/img/google_sheets_scope.png)

The **Scope** setting defines what type of privileges your app has while querying your spreadsheets. Use this option to allow the minimum necessary privileges for your app's function to reduce the risk to your data.

- **Read/Write | Selected Google Sheets**: Your app only has read and write access to the spreadsheets that it creates. Spreadsheets on the Google account created by other means aren't visible or mutable by your queries.

- **Read/Write | All Google Sheets**: Your app has read and write access to all spreadsheets on your Google account, regardless of how or when they were created.

- **Read Files | All Google Sheets**: Your app has read-only access to all spreadsheets on your Google account, regardless of how or when they were created.

### Save and authorize

Click the **Save and Authorize** button after selecting the **Scope**. You'll be directed to the Google OAuth screen to choose the Google account whose spreadsheets you’d like to access.

On the next screen, click **Allow** to grant the Appsmith app permission to view and edit files based on the scope.

-->

<figure>
  <img src="/img/googlesheets_scopes.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring a new Google Sheets datasource."/>
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring a new Google Sheets datasource.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

The **Scope** setting defines what type of privileges your app has while querying your spreadsheets. Use this option to allow the minimum necessary privileges for your app's function to reduce the risk to your data.

- **Read Files**: Your app only has read access to your spreadsheets. The sheets are not mutable by your queries from Appsmith.

- **Read, Edit, and Create Files**: Your app has read and write access to all spreadsheets on your Google account, and can be used to create new spreadsheets on your account as well.

- **Read, Edit, Create, and Delete Files**: Your app has access to perform any operation on your sheets, including permanently deleting them.

### Save and authorize

Click the **Save and Authorize** button after selecting the **Scope**. You'll be directed to the Google OAuth screen to choose the Google account whose spreadsheets you’d like to access.

On the next screen, click **Allow** to grant the Appsmith app permission to view and edit files based on the scope.

## Create queries

<figure>
  <img src="/img/google-sheets-query-page.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring a query from the query screen."/>
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring a query from the query screen.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

You can write [queries](https://docs.appsmith.com/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database/query-settings) to fetch or write data to Google Sheets by selecting the **+ New Query**  button on the Google Sheets datasource page, or by clicking (**+**) next to **Queries/JS** in the **Explorer** tab and selecting your Google Sheets datasource. You'll be brought to a new query screen where you can configure your request.

## Fetch rows

Use the **Fetch Many** operation with the **Sheet rows** entity to pull your spreadsheet records into your app. You can configure this query with the fields below to fetch records that meet specific conditions.

### Filter format

Under **Filter Format**, you can choose one of two styles of selecting a subset of your data:

- **Where Clause**: fetch records based on conditions. Also enables sorting and pagination.
- **Cell Range**: fetch a block of spreadsheet cells, defined by spreadsheet-style notation (like "A2:B7").

#### Where clause

These fields enable you to return records conditionally, sort on multiple levels, and set up pagination.

##### Filter and sort

In the **Filter by** fields, you can build expressions that return records when a column value meets some criteria. You can evaluate them using `in`, `not in`, `contains`, and logic operators.

The **Add Condition** button adds another simple single-line expression. **Add Group Condition** adds a nested expression with multiple levels of And/Or statements.

In the **Sort By** field, you can choose a column to use for sorting your results. The **Add Parameter** button adds multiple levels of sorting.

##### Pagination

To limit the amount of records you receive at once, use **Pagination Limit**.

**Pagination Offset** allows skipping a given number of records before returning results; these two fields together enable you to implement pagination for large datasets.

To learn more about using paginating your data in tables, read [offset-based pagination](/reference/widgets/table#offset-based-pagination).

#### Cell range

If you need to select contiguous block of cells based on their location in the spreadsheet instead of their values, use the **Cell Range** filter format. This mode doesn't allow conditions, sorting, or pagination.

This mode uses Google Sheets' row number and column letter syntax (for example, `A1-B14`) to select cells. Even when the column header row isn't part of your selection, your fetched data still includes the column labels for your selected cells.

---

**Example**: fetch all records from a table `users` on `Sheet1` of `UsersSpreadsheet`, 10 records at a time, and put them into a Table widget `UsersTable`.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/google-sheets-fetch-many.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring a Fetch Many query."/>
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring a Fetch Many query.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

**Setup**: create a query called `FetchUsers` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Fetch Many** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity, and be configured with the spreadsheet and sheet name in their appropriate fields. Set the **Filter Format** to **Where Clause** to access the pagination settings.

This query doesn't require filtering or sorting the data, so **Filter By** and **Sort By** can be left blank.

Set the **Pagination Limit** to 10 to limit the number of records you receive at once.

To continue setting up pagination for your data, you can use your Table widget's `pageOffset` property in the **Pagination Offset** field. To learn more about pagination, read [server-side pagination](#reference/widgets/table#server-side-pagination).

In the **Table Data** property of your Table widget, bind the result of your query:

```javascript
// in the Table Data property of UsersTable
{{ FetchUsers.data }}
```

Your table should fill with data when the query is run.

## Insert a row

Use **Insert** operations to create a new spreadsheet, or to add a new record to an existing spreadsheet.

<!-- HIDDEN BY FEATURE FLAG
If your Google Sheets datasource's **Scope** is set to **Read/Write | Selected Google Sheets**, you have to use an insert query to create any spreadsheets that you'd like your app to access.
-->

To insert a record, supply an object in the query's **Row Object** field with keys matching the spreadsheet's column headings.

---

**Example**: create a new record in a table `users` on `Sheet1` of `UsersSpreadsheet`, with columns for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

**Setup**: create your query called `InsertNewUser` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Insert One** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity. Enter the appropriate values for **Spreadsheet**, **Sheet Name**, and **Table Heading Row Index**.

To gather data for the new record, create a [JSON Form](/reference/widgets/json-form) on the canvas called `NewUserForm`. You should already have fields for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

In JSON Form's Submit [button](/reference/widgets/button) properties, configure the **onClick** event to execute your query:

```javascript
// Submit button's onClick event
{{ InsertNewUser.run() }}
```

Once these form fields are filled out, you can add their values to your query in the **Row Object** field like below:

```javascript
// in the Row Object field of your query
{{
  {
    "name": NewUserForm.formData.name,
    "date_of_birth": NewUserForm.formData.date_of_birth,
    "employee_id": NewUserForm.formData.employee_id
  }
}}

```

When the Submit button is clicked, your query is executed and the new record is inserted as the new highest index in your dataset (at the bottom of the spreadsheet).

## Update a row

Use **Update** operations to modify existing records in your spreadsheet.

To update a record, supply an object with updated values in the query's **Row Object** field. Include a `rowIndex` key that matches your original record.

:::caution important
When you update a row, your row object must include a `rowIndex` key with a number to specify which record in the spreadsheet to update. `rowIndex` refers to the index of the record in the array of table records, *not* the record's row number in the spreadsheet.
:::

---

**Example**: modify a record in a table `users` on `Sheet1` of `UsersSpreadsheet`, with columns for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

**Setup**: create your query called `UpdateUser` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Update One** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity. Enter the appropriate values for **Spreadsheet**, **Sheet Name**, and **Table Heading Row Index**. Finally, You should have a [Table widget](/reference/widgets/table) `UsersTable` containing your spreadsheet data from a **Fetch** query.

Create a [JSON Form widget](/reference/widgets/json-form) to use for submitting your updated data. It should come with fields for `name`, `date_of_birth`, and `employee_id`.

When a row is selected in the table, it would be helpful if the JSON Form's fields pre-filled with the row's existing data. To implement this, match the keys in the JSON Form's **Source Data** property with the values from the table row's cells:

```javascript
// JSON Form's Source Data property
{{
  {
    "name": UsersTable.selectedRow.name,
    "date_of_birth": UsersTable.selectedRow.date_of_birth,
    "employee_id": UsersTable.selectedRow.employee_id
  }
}}
```

In JSON Form's Submit [button](/reference/widgets/button) properties, configure the **onClick** event to execute your query:

```javascript
// Submit button's onClick event
{{ UpdateUser.run() }}
```

To add your modified row data to your query, reference them in its **Row Object** field. You must include the `rowIndex` key in your submission to indicate which record to update. If your data came from a Google Sheets **Fetch** operation, this key was returned in the original response:

```javascript
// in the Row Object field of your query
{{
  {
    "rowIndex": UsersTable.selectedRow.rowIndex, // include the rowIndex key
    "name": NewUserForm.formData.name,
    "date_of_birth": NewUserForm.formData.date_of_birth,
    "employee_id": NewUserForm.formData.employee_id
  }
}}
```

When the Submit button is clicked, your query is executed and the record is updated in your spreadsheet.

## Delete a row

Use **Delete** operations to remove a record from your spreadsheet.

To delete a record, supply the `rowIndex` value of the record to delete. `rowIndex` refers to the index of the record in the array of table records, *not* the record's row number in the spreadsheet.

---

**Example**: delete a record from a spreadsheet `users`.

**Setup**: create your query called `DeleteUser` based on your Google Sheets datasource. This query should use the **Update One** operation for the **Sheet Rows** entity. Enter the appropriate values for **Spreadsheet**, **Sheet Name**, and **Table Heading Row Index**. Finally, You should have a [Table widget](/reference/widgets/table) `UsersTable` containing your spreadsheet data from a **Fetch** query.

Create a [Button widget](/reference/widgets/button) on the canvas and update its **Label** to "Delete." Set its **onClick** event to execute your `DeleteUser` query:

```javascript
// in the Delete button's onClick event
{{ DeleteUser.run() }}
```

To delete a record, you need only provide the `rowIndex` of the record to delete. In your `DeleteUser` query's **Row Index** field, bind the value of the selected row of the `UsersTable`:

```javascript
// DeleteUser query's Row Index field
{{ UsersTable.selectedRow.rowIndex }}
```

Now when the button is clicked, the query is run and the corresponding row is deleted from your spreadsheet.

## Operations

**Operation** sets the type of action you want to perform with your query. A "Spreadsheet" is the document, a "Sheet" is a page of a spreadsheet, and "Sheet Rows" are horizontal records in a sheet.

| **Operation**                        | **Description**                           | **Available entities:**       |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **Fetch Details**  | Fetches metadata about a spreadsheet. | Spreadsheet  |
| **Insert One**            | Inserts a single new row into a spreadsheet, or creates a new spreadsheet.|  Sheet Rows<br/>Spreadsheet  |
| **Update One**            | Updates a record in a spreadsheet.        | Sheet Rows |
| **Delete One**            | Deletes a single record, sheet, or spreadsheet. | Sheet Rows<br/>Spreadsheet<br/>Sheet |
| **Fetch Many**        | Fetches records from a spreadsheet, or fetches all existing spreadsheets in your account. | Sheet Rows<br/>Spreadsheet        |
| **Insert Many**      | Inserts several new rows into a spreadsheet. | Sheet Rows |
| **Update Many**      | Updates multiple existing records in a spreadsheet.  | Sheet Rows  |

All the operation types have some of these common fields that identify where in your spreadsheets your query should access:

| **Configuration Field**     | **Description**                                                               |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Entity**                  | Select which entity type you want to query: <br/>**Sheet Rows**: Horizontal records in the spreadsheet.<br/>**Spreadsheet**: Document containing cell matrix.<br/>**Sheet**: A page of a spreadsheet. |
| **Spreadsheet**             | Select which spreadsheet you want to query from.                              |
| **Sheet Name**              | Select which sheet you want to query from the spreadsheet.                    |
| **Table Heading Row Index** | Provide the index of the row in the spreadsheet that contains the headings or labels for your table columns. The first row of the spreadsheet is row 1.                                                     |

## Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing difficulties, you can refer to the [troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/action-errors/) page for assistance.

If you need further support, you can reach out on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/rBTTVJp) or ask questions on the [community forum](https://community.appsmith.com/).

## Further reading

* [Queries](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database/)
* [Table widget](/reference/widgets/table)
* [Form widget](/reference/widgets/form)
