website/docs/connect-data/reference/google-ai.md, before:


# Google AI

This page provides information for connecting Appsmith to Google AI, which allows you to configure applications with advanced AI features, such as chat completion.

## Connect Google AI

<ZoomImage
  src="/img/google-ai-landingpage.png" 
  alt="Google AI datasource"
  caption="Google AI datasource"
/>

### Connection parameters

The following section is a reference guide that provides a complete description of all the parameters to connect to a Google AI datasource.

#### Authentication type


<dd>

Authentication Type refers to the method used to verify the identity of users or systems interacting with the API. 

*Options:*

* **API Key:** It is a form of authentication where a unique code is provided for identification and authorization purposes.

</dd>




#### API Key

<dd>

The Google AI uses API keys for authentication. You can create a key from [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey).


</dd>


## Query Google AI

The following section is a reference guide that provides a description of the available commands with their parameters to create Google AI queries.

### Generate Content

The Generate Content command generates human-like text based on input prompts. The following section lists all the available parameters:

<ZoomImage
  src="/img/google-ai-chat.png" 
  alt="Google AI - Generate Content Command"
  caption="Google AI - Generate Content Command"
/>

#### Models

<dd>

It refers to the pre-trained language models provided by Google AI. You can select from the available list of models, including options like gemini-pro.

</dd>

#### Messages

<dd>
Messages serve as the input interface between the user and the model. You can create multiple messages as needed to facilitate a dynamic conversation.

* **Role**: This parameter determines the participant's role in the conversation. Currently, only `User` is available.

* **Type**: Specifies the format of the input and response. Currently, only `Text` is available.

* **Content**: Input provided by the user to instruct or guide the model. For example, if you are using an Input widget to enter the prompt, you can use `{{Input1.text}}`.

</dd>

For more information refer to the [Google AI documentation](https://ai.google.dev/tutorials/setup).

Commit message:

fix: Privacy note for AI integrations + cleanup datasources  (#2112)

website/docs/connect-data/reference/google-ai.md, after:


# Google AI

This page provides information for connecting Appsmith to Google AI, which allows you to configure applications with advanced AI features, such as chat completion.


:::note Data, Privacy and Security
Appsmith is committed to providing safe and responsible access to AI capabilities. Your prompts, outputs, embeddings, and data are not shared with other users and are never utilized to fine-tune models. Learn more about Google's privacy policy [here](https://support.google.com/gemini/answer/13594961?hl=en).
:::


## Connect Google AI

<ZoomImage
  src="/img/google-ai-landingpage.png" 
  alt="Google AI datasource"
  caption="Google AI datasource"
/>

### Connection parameters

The following section is a reference guide that provides a complete description of all the parameters to connect to a Google AI datasource.

#### Authentication type


<dd>

Authentication Type refers to the method used to verify the identity of users or systems interacting with the API. 

*Options:*

* **API Key:** It is a form of authentication where a unique code is provided for identification and authorization purposes.

</dd>




#### API Key

<dd>

The Google AI uses API keys for authentication. You can create a key from [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey).


</dd>


## Query Google AI

The following section is a reference guide that provides a description of the available commands with their parameters to create Google AI queries.

### Generate Content

The Generate Content command generates human-like text based on input prompts. The following section lists all the available parameters:

<ZoomImage
  src="/img/google-ai-chat.png" 
  alt="Google AI - Generate Content Command"
  caption="Google AI - Generate Content Command"
/>

#### Models

<dd>

It refers to the pre-trained language models provided by Google AI. You can select from the available list of models, including options like gemini-pro.

</dd>

#### Messages

<dd>
Messages serve as the input interface between the user and the model. You can create multiple messages as needed to facilitate a dynamic conversation.

* **Role**: This parameter determines the participant's role in the conversation. Currently, only `User` is available.

* **Type**: Specifies the format of the input and response. Currently, only `Text` is available.

* **Content**: Input provided by the user to instruct or guide the model. For example, if you are using an Input widget to enter the prompt, you can use `{{Input1.text}}`.

</dd>

For more information refer to the [Google AI documentation](https://ai.google.dev/tutorials/setup).
