website/docs/connect-data/reference/querying-oracle.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 11
---

# Oracle

This page gives information to connect Appsmith to an Oracle database and to and to read and write data in your applications.

## Connect Oracle

:::caution important
If you are a self-hosted user, you must whitelist the IP addresses 18.223.74.85 and 3.131.104.27 of the Appsmith deployment on your database instance before connecting to a database. See [Managing Internet Protocol Allowlist and Blocklist Rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/get-started/subscriptions-cloud/mmocs/managing-internet-protocol-whitelist-and-blacklist-rules.html) for more details.
:::

### Connection parameters

The following section is a reference guide that provides a complete description of all the parameters to connect to an Oracle database.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/oracle-datasource-config.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring an Oracle datasource." />
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring an Oracle datasource.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

<dl>
  <dt><b>Host Address</b></dt>
  <dd>The network location of your Oracle database. This can be a domain name or an IP address. To connect to a local Oracle database, see <a href="/connect-data/how-to-guides/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith"><b>Connect Local Database</b></a> for directions. </dd><br />

  <dt><b>Port</b></dt>
  <dd>The port number to connect to on the server. Appsmith connects to port `1521` by default if you do not specify one.</dd><br />

  <dt><b>Service Name</b></dt>
  <dd>The service name for your database instance. </dd><br />

  <dt><b>Username</b></dt>
  <dd>The username that you want to use to authenticate with the Oracle server.</dd><br />

  <dt><b>Password</b></dt>
  <dd>Password to use if the server demands password authentication.</dd><br />

  <dt><b>SSL Mode</b></dt>
  <dd>Determines whether your queries use an SSL connection to communicate with the database.</dd><br />
  <dd><i>Options:</i>
    <ul>
      <li><b>TLS:</b> Connection is encrypted but no client verification is done.</li>
      <li><b>Disabled:</b> Disables SSL completely, and all connections are established without encryption.</li>
    </ul>
  </dd>
</dl>

## Query Oracle

The following section provides examples of creating basic CRUD queries for Oracle.

:::info
For Oracle SQL syntax, see the official documentation [**Oracle SQL Language Reference**](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/sqlrf/Basic-Elements-of-Oracle-SQL.html#GUID-41D065C3-3449-4DAE-B2D8-4DF256FFC88A).
:::

### Fetch data

```sql
SELECT * FROM users OFFSET {{ UsersTable.pageOffset }} ROWS FETCH NEXT {{ UsersTable.pageSize }} ROWS ONLY;
```

In the above example, `UsersTable` is the name of the Table widget used to display the data using [**server-side pagination**](/reference/widgets/table#server-side-pagination) to control how much data is queried at once.

### Insert data

```sql
INSERT INTO users
  (name, gender, email)
VALUES
(
  {{ NameInput.text }},
  {{ GenderDropdown.selectedOptionValue }},
  {{ EmailInput.text }}
);
```

In the above example,  `NameInput`,  `GenderDropdown`,  and `EmailInput` are the names of the widgets used to capture input from the user for name, gender and email fields, respectively.

### Update data

```sql
UPDATE users
  SET email = {{ EmailInput.text }}
  WHERE id = {{ UsersTable.selectedRow.id }};
```

In the above example, `EmailInput` is the name of the Input widget used to capture the email entered by the user. `UsersTable` is the Table widget where the user selects the row to update the user's email.

### Delete data

```sql
DELETE FROM users WHERE id = {{ UsersTable.selectedRow.id }};
```

In the above example, `UsersTable` is the name of the Table widget where the user selects the row for deletion.

:::info
Prepared statements are turned on by default in your queries to help prevent SQL injection attacks. For more details, see [**Prepared Statements**](/connect-data/concepts/how-to-use-prepared-statements).
:::

## See also

[Data access and binding](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding)

Commit message:

fix: Added datasource troubleshooting headings (#1601)
Added Troubleshooting section to the bottom of all datasource reference
pages.

Resolves #1524 

## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [x] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/connect-data/reference/querying-oracle.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 11
---

# Oracle

This page gives information to connect Appsmith to an Oracle database and to and to read and write data in your applications.

## Connect Oracle

:::caution important
If you are a self-hosted user, you must whitelist the IP addresses 18.223.74.85 and 3.131.104.27 of the Appsmith deployment on your database instance before connecting to a database. See [Managing Internet Protocol Allowlist and Blocklist Rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/get-started/subscriptions-cloud/mmocs/managing-internet-protocol-whitelist-and-blacklist-rules.html) for more details.
:::

### Connection parameters

The following section is a reference guide that provides a complete description of all the parameters to connect to an Oracle database.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/oracle-datasource-config.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring an Oracle datasource." />
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring an Oracle datasource.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

<dl>
  <dt><b>Host Address</b></dt>
  <dd>The network location of your Oracle database. This can be a domain name or an IP address. To connect to a local Oracle database, see <a href="/connect-data/how-to-guides/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith"><b>Connect Local Database</b></a> for directions. </dd><br />

  <dt><b>Port</b></dt>
  <dd>The port number to connect to on the server. Appsmith connects to port `1521` by default if you do not specify one.</dd><br />

  <dt><b>Service Name</b></dt>
  <dd>The service name for your database instance. </dd><br />

  <dt><b>Username</b></dt>
  <dd>The username that you want to use to authenticate with the Oracle server.</dd><br />

  <dt><b>Password</b></dt>
  <dd>Password to use if the server demands password authentication.</dd><br />

  <dt><b>SSL Mode</b></dt>
  <dd>Determines whether your queries use an SSL connection to communicate with the database.</dd><br />
  <dd><i>Options:</i>
    <ul>
      <li><b>TLS:</b> Connection is encrypted but no client verification is done.</li>
      <li><b>Disabled:</b> Disables SSL completely, and all connections are established without encryption.</li>
    </ul>
  </dd>
</dl>

## Query Oracle

The following section provides examples of creating basic CRUD queries for Oracle.

:::info
For Oracle SQL syntax, see the official documentation [**Oracle SQL Language Reference**](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/sqlrf/Basic-Elements-of-Oracle-SQL.html#GUID-41D065C3-3449-4DAE-B2D8-4DF256FFC88A).
:::

### Fetch data

```sql
SELECT * FROM users OFFSET {{ UsersTable.pageOffset }} ROWS FETCH NEXT {{ UsersTable.pageSize }} ROWS ONLY;
```

In the above example, `UsersTable` is the name of the Table widget used to display the data using [**server-side pagination**](/reference/widgets/table#server-side-pagination) to control how much data is queried at once.

### Insert data

```sql
INSERT INTO users
  (name, gender, email)
VALUES
(
  {{ NameInput.text }},
  {{ GenderDropdown.selectedOptionValue }},
  {{ EmailInput.text }}
);
```

In the above example,  `NameInput`,  `GenderDropdown`,  and `EmailInput` are the names of the widgets used to capture input from the user for name, gender and email fields, respectively.

### Update data

```sql
UPDATE users
  SET email = {{ EmailInput.text }}
  WHERE id = {{ UsersTable.selectedRow.id }};
```

In the above example, `EmailInput` is the name of the Input widget used to capture the email entered by the user. `UsersTable` is the Table widget where the user selects the row to update the user's email.

### Delete data

```sql
DELETE FROM users WHERE id = {{ UsersTable.selectedRow.id }};
```

In the above example, `UsersTable` is the name of the Table widget where the user selects the row for deletion.

:::info
Prepared statements are turned on by default in your queries to help prevent SQL injection attacks. For more details, see [**Prepared Statements**](/connect-data/concepts/how-to-use-prepared-statements).
:::

## Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing difficulties, you can refer to the [Datasource troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/action-errors/datasource-errors) or contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
