website/docs/connect-data/reference/querying-postgres.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 13
description: Connect Appsmith to a PostgreSQL database and create queries.
---

# PostgreSQL

This page gives information to connect Appsmith to a PostgreSQL database and to read and write data in your applications.

## Connect PostgreSQL

:::caution
If you are a cloud user, you must configure the `pg_hba.conf` file to whitelist the IP addresses `18.223.74.85` and `3.131.104.27` of the Appsmith deployment on your database instance before connecting to a database. See [**Client Authentication**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/auth-pg-hba-conf.html) for more details.
:::

### Connection parameters

The following section is a reference guide that provides a complete description of all the parameters to connect to a PostgreSQL database.

<ZoomImage src="/img/postgres-img.png" alt="Connect PostgreSQL Database" caption="Connect PostgreSQL Database" />

#### Connection Mode

<dd> Specifies the mode in which the Appsmith application can interact with the database. </dd><br />
<dd>
  <i>Options:</i>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Read Only:</b> This mode permits read-only transactions by default.</li>
    <li><b>Read/Write:</b> This mode permits both read-write transactions by default.</li>
  </ul>
</dd>

#### Host Address

<dd>The network location of the PostgreSQL server that you want to connect. This can be a domain name or an IP address. To connect to a local PostgreSQL database, see <a href="/connect-data/how-to-guides/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith"><b>Connect Local Database</b></a> for directions on configuring the connection parameters. </dd>

#### Port

<dd>The port number to connect to at the server host. Appsmith connects to port <code>5432</code> by default if you do not specify one. </dd>

#### Database Name

<dd>The name of the database you want to connect. </dd>

#### Username

<dd>The username that you want to use to authenticate with the PostgreSQL server.</dd>

#### Password

<dd>Password to use if the server demands password authentication.</dd>

#### SSL Mode

<dd>Determines with what priority a secure SSL TCP/IP connection is negotiated with the server.</dd><br />
<dd>
  <i>Options:</i>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Default:</b> The default SSL Mode is <b>Prefer</b>.</li>
    <li><b>Allow:</b> First try a non-SSL connection; if that fails, try an SSL connection. The client can connect with or without SSL.</li>
    <li><b>Prefer:</b> First try an SSL connection; if that fails, try a non-SSL connection. The client tries to connect with SSL but falls back to an unencrypted connection if SSL is unavailable.</li>
    <li><b>Require:</b> Only try an SSL connection. Rejects the connection if SSL is not available.</li>
    <li><b>Disable:</b> Only try a non-SSL connection. Disallows all administrative requests over HTTPS. It uses a plain unencrypted connection.</li>
  </ul>
</dd>  
<dd>For more information, see <a href="https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-ssl.html"><b>SSL Support</b></a>.</dd>

## Query PostgreSQL

The following section provides examples of creating basic CRUD queries on PostgreSQL.

<ZoomImage src="/img/postgreside.png" alt="Write SQL commands in the query editor" caption="Write SQL commands in the query editor" />

:::info
For the SQL syntax, see the official [**PostgreSQL documentation**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/index.html).
:::

### Fetch data

```sql
SELECT * FROM users LIMIT {{ tableUsers.pageSize }} OFFSET {{ tableUsers.pageOffset }};

```

In the above example, `tableUsers` is the name of the Table widget used to display the data using [**server-side pagination**](/build-apps/how-to-guides/Server-side-pagination-in-table).

See how to guide on [Fetch and Filter data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/fetch-and-filter-data-in-sql).

### Insert data

```
INSERT INTO users
  (name, gender, email)
VALUES
  (
    {{ nameInput.text }},
    {{ genderDropdown.selectedOptionValue }},
    {{ emailInput.text }}
  );

```

In the above example,  `nameInput`,  `genderDropdown`, and `emailInput` are the names of the widgets used to capture input from the user for name, gender and email fields, respectively.

See how-to guide on [Insert and Update data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/insert-and-update-data-in-sql).

### Update data

```
UPDATE users
  SET email = '{{emailInput.text}}'
  WHERE id = {{ tableUsers.selectedRow.id}};

```

In the above example, `emailInput` is the name of the Input widget used to capture the email entered by the user. `tableUsers` is the Table widget where the user selects the row to update the user's email.

### Delete data

```
DELETE FROM users WHERE id = {{tableUsers.selectedRow.id}};

```

In the above example, `tableUsers` is the name of the Table widget where the user selects the row for deletion.

:::info
Prepared statements are turned on by default in your queries to help prevent SQL injection attacks. For more details, see [**Prepared Statements**](/connect-data/concepts/how-to-use-prepared-statements).
:::

## Row Level Security (RLS)

Row level security is a PostgreSQL security feature the database provides to limit what table rows are visible for querying. It allows the database admins to define security policies to control how the rows of a given table can be accessed or modified. Watch the [**video series**](https://youtu.be/8qPTZQvJ9fA) for details on using RLS on your apps.

## Troubleshooting

If you're experiencing difficulties, you can refer to to the [Datasource troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/application-errors), or contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## See also
- [Fetch and Filter data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/fetch-and-filter-data-in-sql)
- [Insert and Update data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/insert-and-update-data-in-sql)

Commit message:

fix: Cross links (#2538)
## Description 

Provide a concise summary of the changes made in this pull request
- 

## Pull request type

Check the appropriate box:

- [ ] Review Fixes
- [ ] Documentation Overhaul
- [ ] Feature/Story
    - Link one or more Engineering Tickets
        * 
- [ ] A-Force
- [ ] Error in documentation
- [ ] Maintenance

## Documentation tickets

 Link to one or more documentation tickets:
 - 

## Checklist

From the below options, select the ones that are applicable:

- [ ] Checked for Grammarly suggestions.
- [ ] Adhered to the writing checklist.
- [ ] Adhered to the media checklist.
- [ ] Verified and updated cross-references or added redirect rules.
- [ ] Tested the redirect rules on deploy preview.
- [ ] Validated the modifications made to the content on the deploy
preview.
- [ ] Validated the CSS modifications on different screen sizes.

website/docs/connect-data/reference/querying-postgres.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 13
description: Connect Appsmith to a PostgreSQL database and create queries.
---

# PostgreSQL

This page gives information to connect Appsmith to a PostgreSQL database and to read and write data in your applications.

## Connect PostgreSQL

:::caution
If you are a cloud user, you must configure the `pg_hba.conf` file to whitelist the IP addresses `18.223.74.85` and `3.131.104.27` of the Appsmith deployment on your database instance before connecting to a database. See [**Client Authentication**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/auth-pg-hba-conf.html) for more details.
:::

### Connection parameters

The following section is a reference guide that provides a complete description of all the parameters to connect to a PostgreSQL database.

<ZoomImage src="/img/postgres-img.png" alt="Connect PostgreSQL Database" caption="Connect PostgreSQL Database" />

#### Connection Mode

<dd> Specifies the mode in which the Appsmith application can interact with the database. </dd><br />
<dd>
  <i>Options:</i>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Read Only:</b> This mode permits read-only transactions by default.</li>
    <li><b>Read/Write:</b> This mode permits both read-write transactions by default.</li>
  </ul>
</dd>

#### Host Address

<dd>The network location of the PostgreSQL server that you want to connect. This can be a domain name or an IP address. To connect to a local PostgreSQL database, see <a href="/connect-data/how-to-guides/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith"><b>Connect Local Database</b></a> for directions on configuring the connection parameters. </dd>

#### Port

<dd>The port number to connect to at the server host. Appsmith connects to port <code>5432</code> by default if you do not specify one. </dd>

#### Database Name

<dd>The name of the database you want to connect. </dd>

#### Username

<dd>The username that you want to use to authenticate with the PostgreSQL server.</dd>

#### Password

<dd>Password to use if the server demands password authentication.</dd>

#### SSL Mode

<dd>Determines with what priority a secure SSL TCP/IP connection is negotiated with the server.</dd><br />
<dd>
  <i>Options:</i>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Default:</b> The default SSL Mode is <b>Prefer</b>.</li>
    <li><b>Allow:</b> First try a non-SSL connection; if that fails, try an SSL connection. The client can connect with or without SSL.</li>
    <li><b>Prefer:</b> First try an SSL connection; if that fails, try a non-SSL connection. The client tries to connect with SSL but falls back to an unencrypted connection if SSL is unavailable.</li>
    <li><b>Require:</b> Only try an SSL connection. Rejects the connection if SSL is not available.</li>
    <li><b>Disable:</b> Only try a non-SSL connection. Disallows all administrative requests over HTTPS. It uses a plain unencrypted connection.</li>
  </ul>
</dd>  
<dd>For more information, see <a href="https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-ssl.html"><b>SSL Support</b></a>.</dd>

## Query PostgreSQL

The following section provides examples of creating basic CRUD queries on PostgreSQL.

<ZoomImage src="/img/postgreside.png" alt="Write SQL commands in the query editor" caption="Write SQL commands in the query editor" />

:::info
For the SQL syntax, see the official [**PostgreSQL documentation**](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/index.html).
:::

### Fetch data

```sql
SELECT * FROM users LIMIT {{ tableUsers.pageSize }} OFFSET {{ tableUsers.pageOffset }};

```

In the above example, `tableUsers` is the name of the Table widget used to display the data using [**server-side pagination**](/build-apps/how-to-guides/Server-side-pagination-in-table).

See how to guide on [Fetch and Filter data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/fetch-and-filter-data-in-sql).

### Insert data

```
INSERT INTO users
  (name, gender, email)
VALUES
  (
    {{ nameInput.text }},
    {{ genderDropdown.selectedOptionValue }},
    {{ emailInput.text }}
  );

```

In the above example,  `nameInput`,  `genderDropdown`, and `emailInput` are the names of the widgets used to capture input from the user for name, gender and email fields, respectively.

See how-to guide on [Insert and Update data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/insert-and-update-data-in-sql).

### Update data

```
UPDATE users
  SET email = '{{emailInput.text}}'
  WHERE id = {{ tableUsers.selectedRow.id}};

```

In the above example, `emailInput` is the name of the Input widget used to capture the email entered by the user. `tableUsers` is the Table widget where the user selects the row to update the user's email.

### Delete data

```
DELETE FROM users WHERE id = {{tableUsers.selectedRow.id}};

```

In the above example, `tableUsers` is the name of the Table widget where the user selects the row for deletion. For information on how to delete data in a Table, see [Delete Data in Table](/reference/widgets/table/inline-editing#delete-row).







:::info
Prepared statements are turned on by default in your queries to help prevent SQL injection attacks. For more details, see [**Prepared Statements**](/connect-data/concepts/how-to-use-prepared-statements).
:::

## Row Level Security (RLS)

Row level security is a PostgreSQL security feature the database provides to limit what table rows are visible for querying. It allows the database admins to define security policies to control how the rows of a given table can be accessed or modified. Watch the [**video series**](https://youtu.be/8qPTZQvJ9fA) for details on using RLS on your apps.

## Troubleshooting

If you're experiencing difficulties, you can refer to to the [Datasource troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/application-errors), or contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## See also

- [Fetch and Filter Data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/fetch-and-filter-data-in-sql) - Learn how to fetch and filter data from SQL databases using queries.
- [Insert and Update Data in SQL](/connect-data/how-to-guides/insert-and-update-data-in-sql) - Step-by-step guide on inserting new records and updating existing data in SQL databases.
- [Update Data](/build-apps/how-to-guides/submit-form-data) - Understand how to update data in your application using Form widget.
- [Insert Data](/build-apps/how-to-guides/insert-data) - Step-by-step instructions on inserting new records into your database using Form widget.
