website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/docker/README.mdx, before:

---
description: Follow these steps to deploy Appsmith on Docker.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Docker

This page provides instructions to install Appsmith using Docker.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="Tde7GqE6FQQ" title="How to install Appsmith using Docker" 
caption="How to install Appsmith using Docker Compose"/> 

## Prerequisites

1. [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (version 20.10.7 or later)
2. [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (version 1.29.2 or later)

## Install Appsmith
Create a folder named `appsmith` on your machine for deployment and data storage. Then, navigate to this folder using the `cd` command and follow the steps below:

<Tabs queryString="current-edition">
<TabItem label="Community Edition" value="community_edition">

1. To download the `docker-compose.yml` file, run the following cURL command:
```bash
curl -L https://bit.ly/docker-compose-CE -o $PWD/docker-compose.yml
```
This command saves the file in the current directory.

2. Start the Docker container using the following command. You may need to run with `sudo` if you don't have permission to run `docker-compose`. 

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```
If the image doesn't exist locally, this command downloads the necessary Docker image and starts the container.

3. To confirm that the deployment is complete, run the command `docker logs -f appsmith`. When the deployment is complete, you can see the message 'Appsmith is Running!' in the logs. You can access it at [http://localhost](http://localhost).

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Business Edition" value="business_edition">

:::info
To upgrade your Community Edition to Business Edition, see [Upgrade to Business Edition](/getting-started/setup/upgrade-to-business-edition/docker).
:::

1. Sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) and generate a trial license key.

2. To download the `docker-compose.yml` file, run the following cURL command:

   ```bash
   curl -L https://bit.ly/docker-compose-be -o $PWD/docker-compose.yml
   ```
This saves the file in the current directory.

3. Start the Docker container using the following command. You may need to run with `sudo` if you don't have permission to run `docker-compose`. 

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

If the image doesn't exist locally, this command downloads the necessary Docker image and starts the container.

4. To confirm that the deployment is complete, run the command `docker logs -f appsmith`. When the deployment is complete, you can see the message 'Appsmith is Running!' in the logs. You can access Appsmith at [http://localhost](http://localhost).

5. Log into your Appsmith account, and enter your license key to activate the instance.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

Some common errors that you may face during installation:
* [Ports unavailable](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#ports-unavailable)
* [Containers failed to restart](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#containers-failed-to-start)
* [Unable to access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith) 

If you continue to face issues, reach out to [support@appsmith.com](mailto:support@appsmith.com).

## Further reading

* [Configure Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#configure-docker-installations)
* [Manage Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)

Commit message:

fix: Update setup docs with time details (#1295)
## Updates as part of the PR:
* Added time details for Docker and Kubernetes doc.

## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [x] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [x] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [x] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [x] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [x] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [x] added images only when necessary
- [x] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [x] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [x] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [x] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [x] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [x] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/docker/README.mdx, after:

---
description: Follow these steps to deploy Appsmith on Docker.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Docker

This page provides instructions to install Appsmith using Docker.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="Tde7GqE6FQQ" title="How to install Appsmith using Docker" 
caption="How to install Appsmith using Docker Compose"/> 

## Prerequisites

1. [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (version 20.10.7 or later)
2. [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (version 1.29.2 or later)

## Install Appsmith
Create a folder named `appsmith` on your machine for deployment and data storage. Then, navigate to this folder using the `cd` command and follow the steps below:

<Tabs queryString="current-edition">
<TabItem label="Community Edition" value="community_edition">

1. To download the `docker-compose.yml` file, run the following cURL command:
   ```bash
   curl -L https://bit.ly/docker-compose-CE -o $PWD/docker-compose.yml
   ```
This command saves the file in the current directory.

2. Start the Docker container using the following command. You may need to run with `sudo` if you don't have permission to run `docker-compose`. 

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```
If the image doesn't exist locally, this command downloads the necessary Docker image and starts the container.

3. Open [https://localhost](https://localhost) and wait for the server to come up. This can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, you can access Appsmith at [https://localhost](https://localhost).

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Business Edition" value="business_edition">

:::info
To upgrade your Community Edition to Business Edition, see [Upgrade to Business Edition](/getting-started/setup/upgrade-to-business-edition/docker).
:::

1. Sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) and generate a trial license key.

2. To download the `docker-compose.yml` file, run the following cURL command:

   ```bash
   curl -L https://bit.ly/docker-compose-be -o $PWD/docker-compose.yml
   ```
This saves the file in the current directory.

3. Start the Docker container using the following command. You may need to run with `sudo` if you don't have permission to run `docker-compose`. 

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

If the image doesn't exist locally, this command downloads the necessary Docker image and starts the container.

4. Open [https://localhost](https://localhost) and wait for the server to come up. This can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, you can access Appsmith at [https://localhost](https://localhost).

5. Log into your Appsmith account, and enter your license key to activate the instance.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

Some common errors that you may face during installation:
* [Ports unavailable](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#ports-unavailable)
* [Containers failed to restart](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#containers-failed-to-start)
* [Unable to access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith) 

If you continue to face issues, reach out to [support@appsmith.com](mailto:support@appsmith.com).

## Further reading

* [Configure Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#configure-docker-installations)
* [Manage Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)
