website/docs/packages/tutorial/query-module.md, before:

---
title: Lesson 1 - Package and query modules
hide_title: true
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Lesson 1 - Package and query modules</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Business", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "business" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

A package is a collection of JS and query modules that can be versioned and distributed across instances. Inside packages, you can create multiple query and JS modules, allowing you to bundle and organize your application logic efficiently.

To learn query modules in Appsmith, you'll build a query module to fetch and display product data within a Table widget. By the end of this tutorial, you will know how to:

* Create and configure the query module
* Integrate the module into your app
* Pass parameters to the module



## Create query module

A reusable query module is a query that can be used across multiple applications within the same workspace. They prove beneficial for tasks like fetching details or creating filter queries, eliminating the need to create separate queries for each application.


<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "calc(50.520833333333336% + 41px)", height: "0", width: "100%" }}>
  <iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/IPU9f2WQccAiY8oalORZ?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style={{ position: "absolute", top: "0", left: "0", width: "100%", height: "100%", colorScheme: "light" }} title="Appsmith | Connect Data">
  </iframe>
</div>


1. Click **Create New** on the top-right corner of your workspace, and then select **New Package**

2. Rename the package to `ProductUtils`.

3. Click the **New Module** button located at the center of the screen. Choose **Query Module** and proceed to create a **new datasource** by selecting PostgreSQL.

4. Enter the following details in the connection parameter fields:

<dd>

* **Connection mode:** `READ_WRITE`
* **Host address:** `aws-0-us-east-1.pooler.supabase.com`
* **Port:** `5432`
* **Database name:** `postgres`
* **Username:** `postgres.hazwlkzitjmrmqbpkqch`
* **Password:** `w9uDFMhmMzOOvPbv`

</dd>

5. Click **+ New Reusable Query** from the top-right corner of datasource editor.

6. Rename the query module to `GetProducts`.

7. Configure the query to retrieve product details using the following SQL:


<dd>

```sql
SELECT * FROM public."product" LIMIT 10;
```

</dd>

8. Run and publish the module. 

You have successfully created the first query module.

## Use query module

Follow these steps to access its data in any application:

<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "calc(50.520833333333336% + 41px)", height: "0", width: "100%" }}>
  <iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/AEb2f22LKzYLFh0jS8bv?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style={{ position: "absolute", top: "0", left: "0", width: "100%", height: "100%", colorScheme: "light" }} title="Appsmith | Connect Data">
  </iframe>
</div>


1. Open your App from the homepage and ensure that both the app and modules share the same workspace.

2. From the **Queries** Tab, click **+ New query / API**.

3. Select the `Add GetProducts` query module to view inputs, default values, and query settings.

4. Run the query module.

5. To display query data, drop a Table widget and connect it to the `GetProducts` **Query module**. 

You have successfully integrated the query module into your app, displaying its data in the Table widget.



## Pass parameters to module


In this section, you will update the query module to accept dynamic inputs, allowing us to pass parameters from the app to the query module for tailored and responsive data retrieval. 


<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "calc(50.520833333333336% + 41px)", height: "0", width: "100%" }}>
  <iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/5c0ccNd04T81vRQGaqru?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style={{ position: "absolute", top: "0", left: "0", width: "100%", height: "100%", colorScheme: "light" }} title="Appsmith | Connect Data">
  </iframe>
</div>

1. Open the `ProductUtils` package, 

2. Navigate to the property pane of the `GetProducts` query. Inputs allow you to pass parameters from your application to modules, facilitating dynamic query adjustments based on user inputs or application requirements.

<dd>

Create two inputs, named `limit` and `offset`, and assign default values to them.

</dd>



3. Update the query by using `inputs` property for dynamic adjustments. 

<dd>


```sql
SELECT * FROM public."product" LIMIT {{inputs.limit}} OFFSET {{inputs.offset}};
```

</dd>

4. Run and publish the query module.


5. Open your app from the homepage to dynamically pass Table widget values to the module.


6. From the **Queries** Tab, select the `GetProducts` query module and set the **inputs** to reference the properties of the Table widget.

<dd>

This configuration dynamically sets the limit and offset based on the values from the Table widget(`Table1`).

```js
//limit input
{{Table1.pageSize}}

//offset input
{{Table1.pageOffset}}
```

</dd>

7. Set the Table widget's **OnPageSizeChange** and **onPageChange** to execute the `GetProducts` query. 



You've successfully integrated query modules; If dynamic inputs are not provided, it defaults to predetermined values.

Commit message:

fix: Modules user testing fixes (#2146)
## Description 

Provide a concise summary of the changes made in this pull request.

- 

## Type of PR

Check the appropriate box:

- [ ] Review Fixes
- [ ] Documentation Overhaul
- [ ] Feature/Story
    - Link one or more Engineering Tickets

        * 

- [ ] A-Force
- [ ] Error in documentation

## Documentation tickets
 Link to one or more documentation tickets:
 
 - 

## Checklist
Choose only the ones that are applicable.

- [ ] Checked for Grammarly suggestions.
- [ ] Adhered to the writing checklist.
- [ ] Adhered the media checklist.
- [ ] Verified and updated cross-references or added redirect rules.
- [ ] Tested the redirect rules on deploy preview.
- [ ] Validated the modifications made to the content on deploy preview.
- [ ] Validated the CSS modifications on different screen sizes.

website/docs/packages/tutorial/query-module.md, after:

---
title: Lesson 1 - Package and query modules
hide_title: true
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Lesson 1 - Package and query modules</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Business", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "business" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

A package is a collection of JS and query modules that can be versioned and distributed across instances. Inside packages, you can create multiple query and JS modules, allowing you to bundle and organize your application logic efficiently.

To learn query modules in Appsmith, you'll build a query module to fetch and display product data within a Table widget. By the end of this tutorial, you will know how to:

* Create and configure the query module
* Integrate the module into your app
* Pass parameters to the module



## Create query module

A reusable query module is a query that can be used across multiple applications within the same workspace. They prove beneficial for tasks like fetching details or creating filter queries, eliminating the need to create separate queries for each application.


<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "calc(50.520833333333336% + 41px)", height: "0", width: "100%" }}>
  <iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/IPU9f2WQccAiY8oalORZ?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style={{ position: "absolute", top: "0", left: "0", width: "100%", height: "100%", colorScheme: "light" }} title="Appsmith | Connect Data">
  </iframe>
</div>


1. Click **Create New** on the top-right corner of your workspace, and then select **New Package**

2. Rename the package to `ProductUtils`.

3. Click the **New Module** button located at the center of the screen. Choose **Query Module** and proceed to create a **new datasource** by selecting PostgreSQL.

4. Enter the following details in the connection parameter fields:

<dd>

* **Connection mode:** `READ_WRITE`
* **Host address:** `aws-0-us-east-1.pooler.supabase.com`
* **Port:** `5432`
* **Database name:** `postgres`
* **Username:** `postgres.hazwlkzitjmrmqbpkqch`
* **Password:** `w9uDFMhmMzOOvPbv`

</dd>

5. Test and save the datasource.

6. Click **+ New Reusable Query** from the top-right corner of the datasource editor.

7. Rename the query module to `GetProducts`.

8. Configure the query to retrieve product details using the following SQL:


<dd>

```sql
SELECT * FROM public."product" LIMIT 10;
```

</dd>

9. Run and publish the module. 

You have successfully created the first query module.

## Use query module

Follow these steps to access its data in any application:

<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "calc(50.520833333333336% + 41px)", height: "0", width: "100%" }}>
  <iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/AEb2f22LKzYLFh0jS8bv?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style={{ position: "absolute", top: "0", left: "0", width: "100%", height: "100%", colorScheme: "light" }} title="Appsmith | Connect Data">
  </iframe>
</div>


1. Open your App from the homepage and ensure that both the app and modules share the same workspace.

2. From the **Queries** Tab, click **+ New query / API**.

3. Select the `Add GetProducts` query module. You can add multiple modules from the package.

4. Run the query module.

5. To display query data, drop a Table widget and connect it to the `GetProducts` **Query module**. 

You have successfully integrated the query module into your app, displaying its data in the Table widget.



## Pass parameters to module


In this section, you will update the query module to accept dynamic inputs, allowing us to pass parameters from the app to the query module for tailored and responsive data retrieval. 


<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "calc(50.520833333333336% + 41px)", height: "0", width: "100%" }}>
  <iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/5c0ccNd04T81vRQGaqru?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style={{ position: "absolute", top: "0", left: "0", width: "100%", height: "100%", colorScheme: "light" }} title="Appsmith | Connect Data">
  </iframe>
</div>

1. Open the `ProductUtils` package, 

2. Navigate to the property pane of the `GetProducts` query. Inputs allow you to pass parameters from your application to modules, facilitating dynamic query adjustments based on user inputs or application requirements.

<dd>

Create two inputs, named `limit` and `offset` with default values of `5` and `4` respectively.

</dd>



3. Update the query by using `inputs` property for dynamic adjustments. 

<dd>


```sql
SELECT * FROM public."product" LIMIT {{inputs.limit}} OFFSET {{inputs.offset}};
```

</dd>

4. Run and publish the query module.

:::info
When you update and publish a package, these modifications automatically apply in the edit mode of the app. However, the live (deployed) version of the app remains unchanged until you redeploy the app. 
:::

5. Open your app from the homepage to dynamically pass Table widget values to the module.


6. From the **Queries** Tab, select the `GetProducts` query module and set the **inputs** to reference the properties of the Table widget.

<dd>

This configuration dynamically sets the limit and offset based on the values from the Table widget(`Table1`).

```js
//limit input
{{Table1.pageSize}}

//offset input
{{Table1.pageOffset}}
```

</dd>

7. Enable the Server-side pagination property in the Table.


8. Set the Table widget's **OnPageSizeChange** and **onPageChange** to execute the `GetProducts` query. 



You've successfully integrated query modules; If dynamic inputs are not provided, it sets to default values.
