website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/google-maps.mdx, before:

---
description: Follow these steps to configure Google Maps Key for your self-hosted Appsmith instance.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Google Maps

This page provides instructions to integrate Google Maps to use the [Map Widget](/reference/widgets/maps) in your applications on the self-hosted instance.

## Prerequisites

- A [Google Cloud](https://www.google.com/aclk?sa=l&ai=DChcSEwi0373S7OX_AhW7Vn0KHT5BD30YABABGgJzZg&sig=AOD64_3YNMGHJAu3vGJmjK-vrl8qni2BxA&q&adurl&ved=2ahUKEwjjs7XS7OX_AhWy3TgGHWtHAkYQ0Qx6BAgIEAE) account. 

## Generate Google Maps API key 

1. Log into the [Google Cloud console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
2. Generate a Google Maps API key. Follow the [Create API keys](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key#create-api-keys) guide on the official Google Maps platform documentation.
3. Restrict the Google Maps API key. Follow the [Restrict API keys](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key#restrict_key) guide on the official Google Maps platform documentation.
4. Ensure that you've enabled Maps Embed API, Maps JavaScript API, Places API, and Geolocation API when following the [Restrict API keys](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key#restrict_key) guide on the official Google Maps platform. 

## Configure Google Maps on Appsmith

You can add the API key in one of the below ways: 

* [Admin Settings](#admin-settings)
* [Environment Variable](#environment-variable)

### Admin Settings

:::caution Attention
If you have assigned the API key value using an environment variable for your instance, it takes precedence over the value provided through the Admin Settings UI.
:::

Follow these steps to add the API key to your self-hosted instance using Admin Settings:

1. Log into your Appsmith instance as a superuser.

2. Go to **Admin Settings** screen.

3. Select **Google Maps** from the left nav bar.

<figure>
<img src="/img/admin-settings-configure-google-maps-api-key.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Google Maps API Key." />
<figcaption align="center"><i>Add your Google Maps API Key</i></figcaption>
</figure>

4. Add your API key to the **Google Maps API Key** field.

5. Click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to restart the instance.


### Environment variable

Follow these steps to add the API key to your self-hosted instance using an environment variable:

1. Go to the location where the Appsmith configuration file is located. For example, the `docker.env` file for Docker and the `values.yaml` file for Kubernetes.

2. Update the value of the `APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY` variable as shown below:

```bash
# Google Maps API key
APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

3. Restart the instance.


You're all set to use the Map widget in your Appsmith applications.

## Troubleshooting
If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

Commit message:

initial commit
- Added self-hosted instance to either prerequisites or to the document introduction.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/google-maps.mdx, after:

---
description: Follow these steps to configure Google Maps Key for your self-hosted Appsmith instance.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Google Maps

This page provides instructions to integrate Google Maps to use the [Map Widget](/reference/widgets/maps) in your applications on the self-hosted instance.

## Prerequisites

- A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
- A [Google Cloud](https://www.google.com/aclk?sa=l&ai=DChcSEwi0373S7OX_AhW7Vn0KHT5BD30YABABGgJzZg&sig=AOD64_3YNMGHJAu3vGJmjK-vrl8qni2BxA&q&adurl&ved=2ahUKEwjjs7XS7OX_AhWy3TgGHWtHAkYQ0Qx6BAgIEAE) account. 

## Generate Google Maps API key 

1. Log into the [Google Cloud console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
2. Generate a Google Maps API key. Follow the [Create API keys](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key#create-api-keys) guide on the official Google Maps platform documentation.
3. Restrict the Google Maps API key. Follow the [Restrict API keys](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key#restrict_key) guide on the official Google Maps platform documentation.
4. Ensure that you've enabled Maps Embed API, Maps JavaScript API, Places API, and Geolocation API when following the [Restrict API keys](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key#restrict_key) guide on the official Google Maps platform. 

## Configure Google Maps on Appsmith

You can add the API key in one of the below ways: 

* [Admin Settings](#admin-settings)
* [Environment Variable](#environment-variable)

### Admin Settings

:::caution Attention
If you have assigned the API key value using an environment variable for your instance, it takes precedence over the value provided through the Admin Settings UI.
:::

Follow these steps to add the API key to your self-hosted instance using Admin Settings:

1. Log into your Appsmith instance as a superuser.

2. Go to **Admin Settings** screen.

3. Select **Google Maps** from the left nav bar.

<figure>
<img src="/img/admin-settings-configure-google-maps-api-key.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Google Maps API Key." />
<figcaption align="center"><i>Add your Google Maps API Key</i></figcaption>
</figure>

4. Add your API key to the **Google Maps API Key** field.

5. Click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to restart the instance.


### Environment variable

Follow these steps to add the API key to your self-hosted instance using an environment variable:

1. Go to the location where the Appsmith configuration file is located. For example, the `docker.env` file for Docker and the `values.yaml` file for Kubernetes.

2. Update the value of the `APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY` variable as shown below:

```bash
# Google Maps API key
APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

3. Restart the instance.


You're all set to use the Map widget in your Appsmith applications.

## Troubleshooting
If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
