website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/README.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  Appsmith ships with third-party services & configurations that improve the app-
  building experience. All services & configurations are entirely optional.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Instance Configuration

This page provides instructions on how to configure your self-hosted Appsmith instance. You can configure a self-hosted Appsmith instance by choosing any one of the below options:
* [Admin Settings](#admin-settings) 
* [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

## Admin settings

The Admin Settings page allows [superusers](#add-super-admins) on self-hosted instances to manage various instance configurations, including email, authentication, and Google Maps integration, as well as user settings and permissions.

:::note
If you don’t see the “Admin Settings” option on the left sidebar, you’re not a super admin for the Appsmith instance and must be granted admin privileges by an existing super admin.
:::

<figure>
  <img src="/img/super-admin-sidebar.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Admin Settings option is available in the left sidebar"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Access admin settings on the left panel under workspaces</i></figcaption>
</figure>


### Add super admins
Users who are granted super admin privileges are authorized to access and make changes to instance & platform settings. If you are a super admin and want to grant super admin privileges to other users, add their email addresses in the **Admin Email** field on the **General** settings page so they can access and modify instance settings as shown below:

<figure>
  <img src="/img/admin-email-settings.png" style= {{width:"900px", height:"auto"}} alt="Use Admin Settings to configure super admins"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Configure a super admin</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Configure instance
The Admin settings enable the configuration of various settings such as user authentication, email notifications, integrations, and more using the user interface for your self-hosted Appsmith instance.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Instance-Configuration-using-Admin-Settings.png" style= {{width:"900px", height:"auto"}} alt="Use Admin Settings to configure your instance"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Configure Your Appsmith Instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>


| Name | Type | Description |
|----------------|----------------|----------------|
| **Instance Name** | General | Modify the name of self-hosted instance|
| **Admin Email** | General | Specify user emails whom you want to make the super admin of your self-hosted instance. Add comma-separated user's email to add more than one super administrator.|
| **Generated Docker Compose File** | General | Generate the Docker Compose file, which defines services for your Appsmith instance. |
|**Share anonymous usage data** | General | Choose whether to share [anonymous usage data](/product/telemetry#opt-in-telemetry) with Appsmith to help improve the product.|
| **Appsmith Watermark** | General | [Upgrade to Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) to remove the **Built on qppsmith\_** badge on the app's bottom right corner.|
| **Embed Settings** | General | Configure to allow users to embed Appsmith in external applications. You may choose to enable embedding on any domain, limit it to certain domains, or disable it completely.|
| **Email** | Email | Configure Email on your Appsmith instance. For more information, see [Email](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email).|
| ** Google Maps ** | Google Maps | Configure to use the Maps widget on your instance. For more information, see [Google Maps](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email). |
| ** Authentication** | Authentication | Configure the authentication type like [**Google OAuth**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/google-login), [**GitHub OAuth**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/github-login). If you are on the [Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing), you can also configure authentication using popular Single Sign-on (SSO) authentication protocols such as [**SAML**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml)  and [**OpenID Connect**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc).|
| **MongoDB URI** | Advanced | Configure to use an external MongoDB database for your self-hosted instance. For more information about how to configure external MongoDB, see [Custom MongoDB & Redis](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-mongodb-redis). |
| **Redis URL** | Advanced |Configure to use an external Redis instance for your self-hosted instance. For more information about how to configure external Redis, see [Custom MongoDB & Redis](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-mongodb-redis). |
| **Custom Domain** | Advanced | Configure to [set up a custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your Appsmith instance. |
| **Version** | Version | Shows the current version of Appsmith. |
| **Branding** | Branding | Appsmith custom branding feature is exclusive to self-hosted, [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) instances. It enables you to personalize workspaces and apps, including the login screen, invite emails, and error pages to match your company's branding. For more information about how to customize and apply branding, see [Branding](/advanced-concepts/branding).|
| **Access Control** | Access Control | Access control is a feature exclusive to [Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) users that implements Role Based Access Control by assigning specific permissions to different user roles. For more information, see [Access Control](/advanced-concepts/granular-access-control).|
| **Audit Logs** | Others | The audit log feature in Appsmith is only available to [Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) users and provides a record of all significant activities on the platform. For more information, see [Audit Logs](/advanced-concepts/audit-logs). |

## Environment variables
You may also choose to configure your self-hosted Appsmith instance using environment variables. Follow the instructions below for manually updating the configuration file for your installation type.

### Configure Docker installations

To configure a docker installation, go to your installation folder and edit the `stacks/configuration/docker.env` file with the environment variables for the service. For example, you wish to add the Google Maps API key. Add/update the environment variable `APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY` and add the Google API key to it as shown below:

```bash
APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY
```

After making changes, be sure to **restart the docker containers** for the changes to take effect. Run the below command to restart the Appsmith container.

* Docker run
  ```bash
   docker restart appsmith
  ```
* Docker Compose
  ```bash
   docker-compose restart appsmith
  ```

### Configure Helm installations

You can modify your Appsmith installation on Kubernetes using a `values.yaml` file. Follow these steps to update the values:

<Tabs groupId="appsmithEditions" queryString="current-edition">
<TabItem label="Community Edition" value="communityEdition"> 

1. Go to the root directory of your installation.

2. Generate the `values.yaml` file with:

  ```bash
  helm show values appsmith/appsmith > values.yaml
  ```  

3. Modify the parameter values in the `values.yaml` file available under the `applicationConfig` section. For example, if you want to change the email address from which your messages are sent, as shown below:

  ```yaml
  applicationConfig:
    #highlight-next-line
    APPSMITH_MAIL_FROM:"test@test.com"
  ```

4. Update the values with:

  ```bash
  helm upgrade appsmith appsmith/appsmith -f values.yaml -n appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Business Edition" value="businessEdition"> 

1. Go to the root directory of your installation.

2. Generate the `values.yaml` file with:

  ```bash
  helm show values appsmith-ee/appsmith > values.yaml
  ```  

3. Modify the parameter values in the `values.yaml` file available under the `applicationConfig` section. For example, if you want to change the email address from which your messages are sent, as shown below:

  ```yaml
  applicationConfig:
    #highlight-next-line
    APPSMITH_MAIL_FROM:"test@test.com"
  ```

4. Update the values with:

  ```bash
  helm upgrade appsmith appsmith-ee/appsmith -f values.yaml -n appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs> 


### Configure ECS installations

To configure an ECS installation, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the ECS console and select Task Definitions on the sidebar.
2. Click the Task Definition used by your ECS instance, and hit Create new revision.
3. On the `Task Definition config` page, click the Appsmith container definition to edit it. In the Environment Section, enter the environment configuration as key-value pairs, as shown below.

![](/img/ecs-task-env_(1).png)

It's recommended to use AWS Secrets for sensitive information. Follow these steps to [create a secret](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/manage_create-basic-secret.html). Use the ARN of the secret as the Environment value and set the option to ValueFrom.

1. Hit the Update button, and hit Create to make a new task definition.
2. Navigate back to the ECS console and select your cluster. Click your service to open the service details.
3. Click Update, and select the latest revision of the Task Definition.
4. Hit Skip to review and then Update Service. The screen below shows the status.

![](/img/instance-configuration-ecs-service-restart.png)

It may take a minute for the new ECS Task to start running.

## Further reading

* [Signup Restriction](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/disable-user-signup)
* [Disable Intercom](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/disable-intercom)
* [Frame Ancestors](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/frame-ancestors)

Commit message:

fix: add callout to mention env variable takes precedence over Admin settings (#1394)
## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/README.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  Appsmith ships with third-party services & configurations that improve the app-
  building experience. All services & configurations are entirely optional.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Instance Configuration

This page provides instructions on how to configure your self-hosted Appsmith instance. You can configure a self-hosted Appsmith instance by choosing any one of the below options:
* [Admin Settings](#admin-settings) 
* [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

## Admin settings

The Admin Settings page allows [superusers](#add-super-admins) on self-hosted instances to manage various instance configurations, including email, authentication, and Google Maps integration, as well as user settings and permissions.

:::note
If you don’t see the “Admin Settings” option on the left sidebar, you’re not a super admin for the Appsmith instance and must be granted admin privileges by an existing super admin.
:::

<figure>
  <img src="/img/super-admin-sidebar.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Admin Settings option is available in the left sidebar"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Access admin settings on the left panel under workspaces</i></figcaption>
</figure>

:::info
If you have set values using [environment variables](#environment-variables) for your instance, those values take precedence over values specified in the Admin Settings UI.
:::

### Add super admins
Users who are granted super admin privileges are authorized to access and make changes to instance & platform settings. If you are a super admin and want to grant super admin privileges to other users, add their email addresses in the **Admin Email** field on the **General** settings page so they can access and modify instance settings as shown below:

<figure>
  <img src="/img/admin-email-settings.png" style= {{width:"900px", height:"auto"}} alt="Use Admin Settings to configure super admins"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Configure a super admin</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Configure instance
The Admin settings enable the configuration of various settings such as user authentication, email notifications, integrations, and more using the user interface for your self-hosted Appsmith instance.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Instance-Configuration-using-Admin-Settings.png" style= {{width:"900px", height:"auto"}} alt="Use Admin Settings to configure your instance"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Configure Your Appsmith Instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>


| Name | Type | Description |
|----------------|----------------|----------------|
| **Instance Name** | General | Modify the name of self-hosted instance|
| **Admin Email** | General | Specify user emails whom you want to make the super admin of your self-hosted instance. Add comma-separated user's email to add more than one super administrator.|
| **Generated Docker Compose File** | General | Generate the Docker Compose file, which defines services for your Appsmith instance. |
|**Share anonymous usage data** | General | Choose whether to share [anonymous usage data](/product/telemetry#opt-in-telemetry) with Appsmith to help improve the product.|
| **Appsmith Watermark** | General | [Upgrade to Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) to remove the **Built on qppsmith\_** badge on the app's bottom right corner.|
| **Embed Settings** | General | Configure to allow users to embed Appsmith in external applications. You may choose to enable embedding on any domain, limit it to certain domains, or disable it completely.|
| **Email** | Email | Configure Email on your Appsmith instance. For more information, see [Email](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email).|
| ** Google Maps ** | Google Maps | Configure to use the Maps widget on your instance. For more information, see [Google Maps](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email). |
| ** Authentication** | Authentication | Configure the authentication type like [**Google OAuth**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/google-login), [**GitHub OAuth**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/github-login). If you are on the [Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing), you can also configure authentication using popular Single Sign-on (SSO) authentication protocols such as [**SAML**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml)  and [**OpenID Connect**](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc).|
| **MongoDB URI** | Advanced | Configure to use an external MongoDB database for your self-hosted instance. For more information about how to configure external MongoDB, see [Custom MongoDB & Redis](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-mongodb-redis). |
| **Redis URL** | Advanced |Configure to use an external Redis instance for your self-hosted instance. For more information about how to configure external Redis, see [Custom MongoDB & Redis](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-mongodb-redis). |
| **Custom Domain** | Advanced | Configure to [set up a custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your Appsmith instance. |
| **Version** | Version | Shows the current version of Appsmith. |
| **Branding** | Branding | Appsmith custom branding feature is exclusive to self-hosted, [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) instances. It enables you to personalize workspaces and apps, including the login screen, invite emails, and error pages to match your company's branding. For more information about how to customize and apply branding, see [Branding](/advanced-concepts/branding).|
| **Access Control** | Access Control | Access control is a feature exclusive to [Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) users that implements Role Based Access Control by assigning specific permissions to different user roles. For more information, see [Access Control](/advanced-concepts/granular-access-control).|
| **Audit Logs** | Others | The audit log feature in Appsmith is only available to [Appsmith Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing) users and provides a record of all significant activities on the platform. For more information, see [Audit Logs](/advanced-concepts/audit-logs). |

## Environment variables
You may also choose to configure your self-hosted Appsmith instance using environment variables. Follow the instructions below for manually updating the configuration file for your installation type.

### Configure Docker installations

To configure a docker installation, go to your installation folder and edit the `stacks/configuration/docker.env` file with the environment variables for the service. For example, you wish to add the Google Maps API key. Add/update the environment variable `APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY` and add the Google API key to it as shown below:

```bash
APPSMITH_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY
```

After making changes, be sure to **restart the docker containers** for the changes to take effect. Run the below command to restart the Appsmith container.

* Docker run
  ```bash
   docker restart appsmith
  ```
* Docker Compose
  ```bash
   docker-compose restart appsmith
  ```

### Configure Helm installations

You can modify your Appsmith installation on Kubernetes using a `values.yaml` file. Follow these steps to update the values:

<Tabs groupId="appsmithEditions" queryString="current-edition">
<TabItem label="Community Edition" value="communityEdition"> 

1. Go to the root directory of your installation.

2. Generate the `values.yaml` file with:

  ```bash
  helm show values appsmith/appsmith > values.yaml
  ```  

3. Modify the parameter values in the `values.yaml` file available under the `applicationConfig` section. For example, if you want to change the email address from which your messages are sent, as shown below:

  ```yaml
  applicationConfig:
    #highlight-next-line
    APPSMITH_MAIL_FROM:"test@test.com"
  ```

4. Update the values with:

  ```bash
  helm upgrade appsmith appsmith/appsmith -f values.yaml -n appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Business Edition" value="businessEdition"> 

1. Go to the root directory of your installation.

2. Generate the `values.yaml` file with:

  ```bash
  helm show values appsmith-ee/appsmith > values.yaml
  ```  

3. Modify the parameter values in the `values.yaml` file available under the `applicationConfig` section. For example, if you want to change the email address from which your messages are sent, as shown below:

  ```yaml
  applicationConfig:
    #highlight-next-line
    APPSMITH_MAIL_FROM:"test@test.com"
  ```

4. Update the values with:

  ```bash
  helm upgrade appsmith appsmith-ee/appsmith -f values.yaml -n appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs> 


### Configure ECS installations

To configure an ECS installation, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the ECS console and select Task Definitions on the sidebar.
2. Click the Task Definition used by your ECS instance, and hit Create new revision.
3. On the `Task Definition config` page, click the Appsmith container definition to edit it. In the Environment Section, enter the environment configuration as key-value pairs, as shown below.

![](/img/ecs-task-env_(1).png)

It's recommended to use AWS Secrets for sensitive information. Follow these steps to [create a secret](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/manage_create-basic-secret.html). Use the ARN of the secret as the Environment value and set the option to ValueFrom.

1. Hit the Update button, and hit Create to make a new task definition.
2. Navigate back to the ECS console and select your cluster. Click your service to open the service details.
3. Click Update, and select the latest revision of the Task Definition.
4. Hit Skip to review and then Update Service. The screen below shows the status.

![](/img/instance-configuration-ecs-service-restart.png)

It may take a minute for the new ECS Task to start running.

## Further reading

* [Signup Restriction](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/disable-user-signup)
* [Disable Intercom](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/disable-intercom)
* [Frame Ancestors](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/frame-ancestors)
