website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/active-directory.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Setup OIDC using Active Directory
---
# Active Directory

To configure Appsmith to use [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) as an OIDC provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.

2. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **OIDC**.

3. Copy the **Redirect URL** from the **OIDC** configuration page to add it when creating the application in Active Directory. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/oidc-configurations-in-appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>OIDC configurations in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application on Active Directory

1. Log in to your [Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) account and under **Azure Services**, click **Azure Active Directory**.
2. Go to **Manage Tenants** from the navigation bar, select your directory and click **Switch**.
3. On your directory's homepage, click **+ Add > App Registration** from the navigation bar.
4. On the **Register an application** page:

   a. Add a name for your app.

   b. Select **Accounts in this organizational directory only (user-education only - Single tenant)** from the options in **Supported account types**.

   c. In **Redirect URI**, select the platform as **Web**, and add the **Redirect URL** copied from Appsmith's OIDC configurations in the adjacent input field.

   d. Click **Register**.

5. On the application homepage, copy the **Application (client) ID** to add it later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith.
6. To get the Client secret:

   a. On the application homepage, click **Add a certificate or secret** from the **Client credentials** label.

   b. On the **Certificates & secrets** page, go to the **client secrets** tab and click **New client secret**.

   c. On **Add a client secret** panel, add the description and define the expiration of the key. Click **Add**.

   d. Copy the **Value** of the **Client secret** to add it later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith.

7. Go back to the application homepage, and click the **Endpoints** tab from the navigation bar. 
8. In the **Endpoints** panel, copy and open the **OpenID Connect metadata document** URL in a new browser tab, and copy the following URLs from that page:

   - **authorization_endpoint**

   - **token_endpoint**

   - **userinfo_endpoint**

   - **jwks_uri**

### Configure scopes on Active Directory

1. To configure scopes on Active Directory, go to **API permissions** from the sidebar and click **Add Permission**.
2. On the **Request API permissions** panel, select **Microsoft Graph > Delegated permissions**.
3. In the **Select permissions** section, select the following permissions from the **Openid permissions** dropdown:

   - email

   - openid

   - Profile

4. Scroll down to the **Users** dropdown and select **Users.Read**. Click **Add permissions**.
5. Go back to the **API permissions** page and click **Grant admin consent for this directory**.


## Register Active Directory in Appsmith

To complete the OIDC configuration, you have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Go to **Admin Settings > Authentication > OIDC**, and follow the steps below:

1. Add the  **Application (client) ID** copied from the Active Directory application in the  **Client ID** field. 

2. Add the **Value** of the Client secret copied from the Active Directory application in the  **Client Secret** field.

3. Add the URLs copied from the **OpenID Connect metadata document** page into OIDC configurations in Appsmith as per the table below:

   | **OIDC configuration field** | **Azure Active Directory URL** |
   | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
   | **Authorization URL**                 | authorization_endpoint                        |
   | **Token URL**                          | token_endpoint                                |
   | **User Info URL**                      | userinfo_endpoint                            |
   | **JWK Set URL**                        | jwks_uri                              |


4. In the **Scopes** section, add the attributes that allow you to authorize access to user details after a user is successfully authenticated. By default, there are three scopes - `openid`, `email`, `profile`. Appsmith needs `openid` and `email` as mandatory scopes. To add more scopes, [configure them on Active Directory](#configure-scopes-on-active-directory) and then add them to the OIDC configurations in Appsmith. 

5. In the **Username Attribute** box, specify the name of the claim which represents the email of the user. The default value is `email`.

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH OIDC SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-OIDC.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with OIDC SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

initial commit
- Added self-hosted instance to either prerequisites or to the document introduction.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/active-directory.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Setup OIDC using Active Directory
---
# Active Directory

To configure Appsmith to use [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) as an OIDC provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **OIDC**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** from the **OIDC** configuration page to add it when creating the application in Active Directory. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/oidc-configurations-in-appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>OIDC configurations in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application on Active Directory

1. Log in to your [Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) account and under **Azure Services**, click **Azure Active Directory**.
2. Go to **Manage Tenants** from the navigation bar, select your directory and click **Switch**.
3. On your directory's homepage, click **+ Add > App Registration** from the navigation bar.
4. On the **Register an application** page:

   a. Add a name for your app.

   b. Select **Accounts in this organizational directory only (user-education only - Single tenant)** from the options in **Supported account types**.

   c. In **Redirect URI**, select the platform as **Web**, and add the **Redirect URL** copied from Appsmith's OIDC configurations in the adjacent input field.

   d. Click **Register**.

5. On the application homepage, copy the **Application (client) ID** to add it later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith.
6. To get the Client secret:

   a. On the application homepage, click **Add a certificate or secret** from the **Client credentials** label.

   b. On the **Certificates & secrets** page, go to the **client secrets** tab and click **New client secret**.

   c. On **Add a client secret** panel, add the description and define the expiration of the key. Click **Add**.

   d. Copy the **Value** of the **Client secret** to add it later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith.

7. Go back to the application homepage, and click the **Endpoints** tab from the navigation bar. 
8. In the **Endpoints** panel, copy and open the **OpenID Connect metadata document** URL in a new browser tab, and copy the following URLs from that page:

   - **authorization_endpoint**

   - **token_endpoint**

   - **userinfo_endpoint**

   - **jwks_uri**

### Configure scopes on Active Directory

1. To configure scopes on Active Directory, go to **API permissions** from the sidebar and click **Add Permission**.
2. On the **Request API permissions** panel, select **Microsoft Graph > Delegated permissions**.
3. In the **Select permissions** section, select the following permissions from the **Openid permissions** dropdown:

   - email

   - openid

   - Profile

4. Scroll down to the **Users** dropdown and select **Users.Read**. Click **Add permissions**.
5. Go back to the **API permissions** page and click **Grant admin consent for this directory**.


## Register Active Directory in Appsmith

To complete the OIDC configuration, you have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Go to **Admin Settings > Authentication > OIDC**, and follow the steps below:

1. Add the  **Application (client) ID** copied from the Active Directory application in the  **Client ID** field. 

2. Add the **Value** of the Client secret copied from the Active Directory application in the  **Client Secret** field.

3. Add the URLs copied from the **OpenID Connect metadata document** page into OIDC configurations in Appsmith as per the table below:

   | **OIDC configuration field** | **Azure Active Directory URL** |
   | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
   | **Authorization URL**                 | authorization_endpoint                        |
   | **Token URL**                          | token_endpoint                                |
   | **User Info URL**                      | userinfo_endpoint                            |
   | **JWK Set URL**                        | jwks_uri                              |


4. In the **Scopes** section, add the attributes that allow you to authorize access to user details after a user is successfully authenticated. By default, there are three scopes - `openid`, `email`, `profile`. Appsmith needs `openid` and `email` as mandatory scopes. To add more scopes, [configure them on Active Directory](#configure-scopes-on-active-directory) and then add them to the OIDC configurations in Appsmith. 

5. In the **Username Attribute** box, specify the name of the claim which represents the email of the user. The default value is `email`.

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH OIDC SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-OIDC.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with OIDC SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>
