website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/auth0.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Setup OIDC using Auth0
title: Auth0
hide_title: true
---
<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Auth0</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

To configure Appsmith to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) as an OIDC provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **OIDC**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** from the **OIDC** configuration page to add it when creating the application in Auth0. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/oidc-configurations-in-appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>OIDC configurations in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application in Auth0

1. Log in to your [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) account and go to **Applications > Create Application**. 

2. In the **Create application** modal, select **Regular Web Application** and click **Create**.

3. Once your application is created, you're taken to the Quick Start screen. Go to the **Settings** tab.

4. In the basic information section, copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** to add them later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith.

5. Scroll down to the **Application URIs** and paste the **Redirect URL** copied from the OIDC configuration in Appsmith in the **Allowed Callback URLs** field.

6. On the **Settings** tab, go to **Advanced Settings > Endpoints**. Copy the following URls from the OAuth section to add them later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith:

  - **OAuth Authorization URL**

  - **OAuth Token URL**

  - **OAuth User Info URL**

  - **JSON Web Key Set**

6. Click **Save Changes**.

##  Register Auth0 in Appsmith

To complete the OIDC configuration, you must register the identity provider on Appsmith. Go to **Admin Settings > Authentication > OIDC**, and follow the steps below:

1. Add the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** copied from the Auth0 application into the respective fields.

2. Add the URLs copied from the Auth0 application into OIDC configurations in Appsmith as per the table below:

      | **OIDC configuration field**      |  **Auth0 URL** |
      | ----------------------- | --------------------- |
      | **Authorization URL** | OAuth Authorization URL     |
      | **Token URL**         | OAuth Token URL             |
      | **User Info URL**      |  OAuth User Info URL         |
      | **JWK Set URL**           | JSON Web Key Set             |

3. In the **Scope** box, specify the scopes to be used by the application during authentication to authorize access to a user's details. By default, there are three scopes - `openid`, `email`, and `profile`. Appsmith needs `openid` and `email` as mandatory scopes. For more information on scopes, see [OpenID Connect Scopes](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/apis/scopes/openid-connect-scopes).

4. In the **Username Attribute** box, specify the name of the claim which represents the email of the user. The default value is `email`.

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH OIDC SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-OIDC.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with OIDC SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

fix: OIDC add offline_access (#1787)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/auth0.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Setup OIDC using Auth0
title: Auth0
hide_title: true
---
<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Auth0</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

To configure Appsmith to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) as an OIDC provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **OIDC**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** from the **OIDC** configuration page to add it when creating the application in Auth0. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/oidc-configurations-in-appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>OIDC configurations in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application in Auth0

1. Log in to your [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) account and go to **Applications > Create Application**. 

2. In the **Create application** modal, select **Regular Web Application** and click **Create**.

3. Once your application is created, you're taken to the Quick Start screen. Go to the **Settings** tab.

4. In the basic information section, copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** to add them later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith.

5. Scroll down to the **Application URIs** and paste the **Redirect URL** copied from the OIDC configuration in Appsmith in the **Allowed Callback URLs** field.

6. On the **Settings** tab, go to **Advanced Settings > Endpoints**. Copy the following URls from the OAuth section to add them later in the OIDC configurations in Appsmith:

  - **OAuth Authorization URL**

  - **OAuth Token URL**

  - **OAuth User Info URL**

  - **JSON Web Key Set**

6. Click **Save Changes**.

##  Register Auth0 in Appsmith

To complete the OIDC configuration, you must register the identity provider on Appsmith. Go to **Admin Settings > Authentication > OIDC**, and follow the steps below:

1. Add the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** copied from the Auth0 application into the respective fields.

2. Add the URLs copied from the Auth0 application into OIDC configurations in Appsmith as per the table below:

      | **OIDC configuration field**      |  **Auth0 URL** |
      | ----------------------- | --------------------- |
      | **Authorization URL** | OAuth Authorization URL     |
      | **Token URL**         | OAuth Token URL             |
      | **User Info URL**      |  OAuth User Info URL         |
      | **JWK Set URL**           | JSON Web Key Set             |

3. In the **Scope** box, specify the scopes to be used by the application during authentication to authorize access to a user's details. By default, there are three scopes - `openid`, `email`, and `profile`. 
  
   Appsmith needs `openid` and `email` as mandatory scopes. It’s also highly recommended to use the `offline_access` scope to avoid errors related to expired access tokens and excessive re-login requests. For more information, see [Auth0 documentation](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/refresh-tokens).


4. In the **Username Attribute** box, specify the name of the claim which represents the email of the user. The default value is `email`.

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH OIDC SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-OIDC.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="OIDC-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with OIDC SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>
