website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/README.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# OpenID Connect SSO

Appsmith provides a way to integrate with OpenID Connect (OIDC), enabling the users to sign in to the Appsmith account using their OIDC identity providers.

:::info
OpenID Connect (OIDC) is only available in Appsmith's [**Enterprise edition**](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing). 
:::

## OIDC providers

Appsmith offers seamless integration with various popular OIDC providers. To get started, select one of the below-listed providers and follow the instructions to configure OIDC integration:

<div class="containerBorder">
    <div class="containerGrid">
        <div class="columnGrid column-one" align="center">
            <div class="containerCol">
             <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/active-directory">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/Azure-Active-Directory.png" alt="AD-logo"/>
                </a>     
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/active-directory">Active Directory</a></b><br/>
        </div>
        <div class="columnGrid column-two" align="center">
         <div class="containerCol">
           <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/aws-cognito">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/aws-cognito.png" alt="aws-cognito-logo"/>
                </a>   
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/aws-cognito">AWS Cognito</a></b> 
        </div>    
        <div class="columnGrid column-three" align="center">
          <div class="containerCol">
           <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/auth0">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/auth0.png" alt="auth0-logo"/>
                </a> 
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/auth0">Auth0</a></b><br/>     
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerGrid">
        <div class="columnGrid column-one" align="center">
           <div class="containerCol">
            <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/okta">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/okta.png" alt="Okta-logo"/>
                </a>   
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/okta">Okta</a></b>
        </div>    
        <div class="columnGrid column-two" align="center">
            <div class="containerCol">
             <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/ping-identity">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/ping_identity.png" alt="ping-identity-logo"/>
                </a>   
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/ping-identity">Ping Identity</a></b>   
        </div>
         <div class="columnGrid column-three" align="center">
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

Commit message:

feat: add tags instead of callouts (#1734)
## Changes
* A component for tags
* Styles for different types of tags
* Updates to pages to remove callouts and add tags.

## Fixes
#1707 

## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/README.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: This page provides an overview about OpenID connect (OIDC) and popular OIDC providers that you can configure on your Appsmith self-hosted instance.
title: OpenID Connect SSO
hide_title: true
---
<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>OpenID Connect SSO</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

Appsmith provides a way to integrate with OpenID Connect (OIDC), enabling the users to sign in to the Appsmith account using their OIDC identity providers.

## OIDC providers

Appsmith offers seamless integration with various popular OIDC providers. To get started, select one of the below-listed providers and follow the instructions to configure OIDC integration:

<div class="containerBorder">
    <div class="containerGrid">
        <div class="columnGrid column-one" align="center">
            <div class="containerCol">
             <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/active-directory">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/Azure-Active-Directory.png" alt="AD-logo"/>
                </a>     
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/active-directory">Active Directory</a></b><br/>
        </div>
        <div class="columnGrid column-two" align="center">
         <div class="containerCol">
           <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/aws-cognito">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/aws-cognito.png" alt="aws-cognito-logo"/>
                </a>   
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/aws-cognito">AWS Cognito</a></b> 
        </div>    
        <div class="columnGrid column-three" align="center">
          <div class="containerCol">
           <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/auth0">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/auth0.png" alt="auth0-logo"/>
                </a> 
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/auth0">Auth0</a></b><br/>     
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerGrid">
        <div class="columnGrid column-one" align="center">
           <div class="containerCol">
            <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/okta">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/okta.png" alt="Okta-logo"/>
                </a>   
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/okta">Okta</a></b>
        </div>    
        <div class="columnGrid column-two" align="center">
            <div class="containerCol">
             <a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/ping-identity">
                <img class="containerImage" src="/img/ping_identity.png" alt="ping-identity-logo"/>
                </a>   
            </div> 
            <b><a href="/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc/ping-identity">Ping Identity</a></b>   
        </div>
         <div class="columnGrid column-three" align="center">
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
