website/docs/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/README.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# How To Guides

This document presumes you are familiar with the [core concepts](core-concepts/connecting-to-data-sources/README.md) of Appsmith and expands upon using Appsmith in real-world scenarios.

## Guide reference

1. [OAuth2 authorization for Google Sheets](oauth2-authorization-for-google-sheets.md)
2. [Uploading a file to S3](how-to-upload-to-s3.md)
3. [Writing JavaScript in Appsmith](writing-javascript-in-appsmith.md)
4. [How to work with Google Sheets on Appsmith](how-to-work-with-google-sheets-on-appsmith.md)
5. [How to use MS SQL as a data source on Appsmith](use-mssql-as-data-source.md)
6. [How to use filters on Appsmith's table widget](how-to-use-filters-on-appsmith-table-widget.md)
7. [How to build auto-generated forms using List widget](build-auto-generated-forms-using-list-widget.md)
8. [How to use Notion as a Database on Appsmith](use-notion-as-database-on-appsmith.md)
9. [How to use Redis as a data source on Appsmith](how-to-use-redis-as-a-data-source-on-apppsmith.md)
10. [How to use Redshift as a Data Source on Appsmith](use-redshift-as-data-source-on-appsmith.md)
11. [How to use ElasticSearch as a data source on Appsmith](how-to-use-elasticsearch-as-a-data-source-on-appsmith.md)
12. [How to use JS objects within Appsmith?](how-to-use-js-object-within-appsmith.md)
13. [Custom Authentication](/advanced-concepts/custom-authentication)

Commit message:

fix: Connect to localhost db Rehaul (#1183)
Rehaul of page for [Connecting to Localhost
DB/API](https://docs.appsmith.com/advanced-concepts/more/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith).

Ticket #975 
[Notion
doc](https://www.notion.so/appsmith/Local-Database-and-API-a0ae25c867ae4d3587866e85ef039ecb)

---------

Co-authored-by: Dancia <32227135+danciaclara@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/README.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# How To Guides

This document presumes you are familiar with the [core concepts](core-concepts/connecting-to-data-sources/README.md) of Appsmith and expands upon using Appsmith in real-world scenarios.

## Guide reference

1. [OAuth2 authorization for Google Sheets](oauth2-authorization-for-google-sheets.md)
1. [Uploading a file to S3](how-to-upload-to-s3.md)
1. [Writing JavaScript in Appsmith](writing-javascript-in-appsmith.md)
1. [How to work with Google Sheets on Appsmith](how-to-work-with-google-sheets-on-appsmith.md)
1. [Connect to Localhost Databases and APIs](/advanced-concepts/more/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith)
1. [How to use MS SQL as a data source on Appsmith](use-mssql-as-data-source.md)
1. [How to use filters on Appsmith's table widget](how-to-use-filters-on-appsmith-table-widget.md)
1. [How to build auto-generated forms using List widget](build-auto-generated-forms-using-list-widget.md)
1. [How to use Notion as a Database on Appsmith](use-notion-as-database-on-appsmith.md)
1. [How to use Redis as a data source on Appsmith](how-to-use-redis-as-a-data-source-on-apppsmith.md)
1. [How to use Redshift as a Data Source on Appsmith](use-redshift-as-data-source-on-appsmith.md)
1. [How to use ElasticSearch as a data source on Appsmith](how-to-use-elasticsearch-as-a-data-source-on-appsmith.md)
1. [How to use JS objects within Appsmith?](how-to-use-js-object-within-appsmith.md)
1. [Custom Authentication](/advanced-concepts/custom-authentication)
