---
description: >-
  Configure your Google reCAPTCHA to ensure only humans can submit forms and
  click buttons
---

# Configure Google reCAPTCHA

This guide shows how to integrate [Google reCAPTCHA](https://www.google.com/recaptcha) into your applications, which allows you to verify that only humans can access critical functionalities, improving security. This can be integrated with Button widget to prevent bots from clicking the button on your website


## Prerequisites

- A Google account to access the reCAPTCHA service.

## Register reCAPTCHA with Google

Follow these steps to configure reCAPTCHA on Google:


1. Navigate to the [Google reCAPTCHA Admin Console](https://www.google.com/recaptcha/admin/create) to register your domain and configure reCAPTCHA for your application.

2. Select the [reCAPTCHA type](https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/versions):

<dd>

- **v3** (Score-based): Verifies requests based on a score.
- **v2** (Challenge-based): Verifies requests through a challenge.

</dd>




 <ZoomImage
    src="/img/recaptcha-setup.png" 
    alt=""
    caption=""
  /> 



3. Provide the domain (e.g., `app.appsmith.com`) for which reCAPTCHA is used.

4. Choose your Google Cloud Platform project and click **Submit**.

5. Copy the **Site Key** and **Secret Key** provided after registration.

 <ZoomImage
    src="/img/recaptcha-api.png" 
    alt=""
    caption=""
  /> 


## Set Up reCAPTCHA in Appsmith

Follow these steps to set up and configure Google reCAPTCHA in Appsmith:

1. Drag a Button widget onto the canvas.

2. In the Button widget's properties pane, paste the **Site Key** into the **Google reCAPTCHA Key** field.

3. Select the **reCAPTCHA** type (v2 or v3) from the **reCAPTCHA version** property.

4. To verify that the reCAPTCHA response was generated by a human, you need to create an API query that sends the reCAPTCHA token, along with your Secret Key, to Google’s verification endpoint. 

<dd>

To do this, create a new API query in Appsmith that posts the token and secret key.

```js
//API Endpoint:
POST https://www.google.com/recaptcha/api/siteverify
```

</dd>

 <ZoomImage
    src="/img/api-recaptcha.png" 
    alt=""
    caption=""
  /> 




5. In the Body tab of the API query, select **Multipart/form-data** as the body type and add the following parameters:

<dd>

- `secret`: Add your reCAPTCHA Secret Key as a key-value pair.
- `response`: Bind the reCAPTCHA token from the Button widget's `recaptchaToken` property, like: `{{Button1.recaptchaToken}}`

The `secret` parameter is necessary to authenticate the request to Google, and the `response` parameter holds the token that was generated after the user interacted with the reCAPTCHA widget.

</dd>

6. After setting up the API query, run the query to trigger the verification. The response indicates whether the reCAPTCHA is successful and provides the score if using v3.



<dd>

*Example*:

```js
{
  "success": true,
  "challenge_ts": "2024-12-12T18:58:33Z",
  "hostname": "app.appsmith.com",
  "score": 0.9,
  "action": "submit"
}
```

</dd>

7. Set the Button widget's **onClick** event to run the API query. If the response is successful, proceed with the desired action (e.g., submitting data). If the verification fails, show an alert indicating the failure.

<dd>

*Example*:

```js
{{recaptchaVerificationApi.run().then((response) => {
  if (response.success) {
    showAlert('Validation Successful', '');
  } else {
    showAlert('Validation Failed', '');
  }
}).catch((error) => {
  showAlert('API Error: ' + error.message, '');
});}}
```

</dd>

You’ve now integrated Google reCAPTCHA with the Button widget in Appsmith to prevent bot interactions. 