website/docs/getting-started/setup/upgrade-to-business-edition/docker.mdx, before:

---
description: Follow the steps to upgrade the Appsmith community Docker installation to a Business Edition.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Docker

The page provides steps to upgrade the Appsmith Docker Community Edition to the Business Edition.

## Prerequisites

- Sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com/) and generate a trial license key.
- Ensure you have at least 2 GB of free storage space for running the backup process.
- Create a backup of the Appsmith instance before upgrading. For more information, see [Backup Appsmith Instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl#backup-instance)
- Ensure that you have the latest Appsmith version deployed on your instance. To update the Appsmith version, see [Update Appsmith](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/update-appsmith).

## Upgrade to Business Edition

Follow these steps to upgrade your Appsmith instance:

1. Go to the root directory of Appsmith installation.
2. Open the `docker-compose.yml` file, and search for the `image:` key.
3. Update the value of the `image:` key as below:

  ``` yaml
    services:
      appsmith:
      #highlight-next-line
        image: index.docker.io/appsmith/appsmith-ee
  ```
4. Save the file.

5. Recreate the instance with:

  ```bash
  docker-compose up -d --force-recreate
  ```

6. Open [https://localhost](https://localhost) and wait for the server to come up. This can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, verify the upgrade with:

  ```bash
  # verify the image name as (appsmith-ee) in use 
  docker ps
  ```
You have successfully upgraded your Docker instance to the Business Edition. 

7.  Log into your Appsmith account, and enter the license key to activate the instance.

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues during the upgrade, [Restore the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl?current-command-type=docker-commands#restore-instance) to the backup created in [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section, and contact the support team at [support@appsmith.com](mailto:support@appsmith.com).

Commit message:

fix: upgrade to business edition k8s (#1324)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [x] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/upgrade-to-business-edition/docker.mdx, after:

---
description: Follow the steps to upgrade the Appsmith community Docker installation to a Business Edition.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Docker

The page provides steps to upgrade the Appsmith Docker Community Edition to the Business Edition.

## Prerequisites

Before upgrading, ensure you have:

- Signed up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com/) and generated a trial license key.
- At least 2 GB of free storage space for the backup process.
- Deployed the latest version of Appsmith. Refer to [Update Appsmith](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/update-appsmith#docker-compose) to update the version.
- Created a backup of your Appsmith instance. For instructions, see [Backup Appsmith Instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl?current-command-type=docker-commands#backup-instance).

## Upgrade to Business Edition

Follow these steps to upgrade your Appsmith instance:

1. Go to the root directory of Appsmith installation.
2. Open the `docker-compose.yml` file, and search for the `image:` key.
3. Update the value of the `image:` key as below:

  ``` yaml
    services:
      appsmith:
      #highlight-next-line
        image: index.docker.io/appsmith/appsmith-ee
  ```
4. Save the file.

5. Recreate the instance with:

  ```bash
  docker-compose up -d --force-recreate
  ```

6. Open [https://localhost](https://localhost) and wait for the server to come up. This can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, verify the upgrade with:

  ```bash
  # verify the image name as (appsmith-ee) in use 
  docker ps
  ```
You have successfully upgraded your Docker instance to the Business Edition. 

7.  Log into your Appsmith account, and enter the license key to activate the instance.

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues during the upgrade, [Restore the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl?current-command-type=docker-commands#restore-instance) to the backup created in [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section, and contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
