website/docs/getting-started/setup/upgrade-to-business-edition/kubernetes.md, before:

---
description: Follow these steps to upgrade the Appsmith Community Kubernetes installation to the Business Edition.
---

# Kubernetes

This page provides steps to upgrade Appsmith Kubernetes Community Edition to Business Edition.

## Prerequisites

Before upgrading, ensure you have:

- Signed up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com/) and generated a trial license key.
- At least 2 GB of free storage space for the backup process.
- Deployed the latest version of Appsmith. Refer to [Update Appsmith](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/update-appsmith#kubernetes) to update the version.
- Created a backup of your Appsmith instance. For instructions, see [Backup Appsmith Instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl?current-command-type=kubernetes-commands#backup-instance).

## Upgrade to Business Edition

Follow these steps to upgrade your Appsmith installation:

1. Create a folder named `appsmith-ee` on your machine for deployment and data storage. Then, navigate to this folder using the `cd` command.

2. Generate the business edition `values.yaml` with:

   ```bash
   helm show values appsmith-ee/appsmith > values.yaml
   ``` 

3. Add the Appsmith chart repository with:

   ```bash
   helm repo add appsmith-ee https://helm-ee.appsmith.com
   ```

4. Load the Appsmith chart repository with:

   ```bash
   helm repo update
   ```

5. Deploy Appsmith with:

   ```
   helm install appsmith appsmith-ee/appsmith -n appsmith --create-namespace
   ```

6. Restore the backup data using the [Restore Appsmith instance](https://docs.appsmith.com/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl?current-command-type=kubernetes-commands#restore-instance).

7. Restart the pods with:

   ```bash
   kubectl rollout restart statefulsets/appsmith -n <NAMESPACE>
   ```

8. Get pod name with:

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods
   ```

9. Verify the installation locally by forwarding port 8080 to 80 with:
 
   ```bash
   # Replace the <APPSMITH_POD_NAME> with the Appsmith pod name from the above command 
   kubectl --namespace appsmith port-forward <APPSMITH_POD_NAME> 8080:80
   ```

10. Open [https://localhost](https://localhost) and wait for the server to come up. It can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, access Appsmith at [https://localhost](https://localhost).

11. Log into your Appsmith account and enter your license key to activate the instance.

12. Once you've verified the Appsmith Business Edition installation, delete the Community Edition namespace with:

   ```bash
   kubectl delete ns <COMMUNITY_EDITION_NAMESPACE>
   ```

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues, continue to use the Community Edition installation and contact [support@appsmith.com](mailto:support@appsmith.com).

Commit message:

Minor changes to wording and added support channel as chat widget.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/upgrade-to-business-edition/kubernetes.md, after:

---
description: Follow these steps to upgrade the Appsmith Community Kubernetes installation to the Business Edition.
---

# Kubernetes

This page provides steps to upgrade Appsmith Kubernetes Community Edition to Business Edition.

## Prerequisites

Before upgrading, ensure you have:

- Signed up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com/) and generated a trial license key.
- At least 2 GB of free storage space for the backup process.
- Deployed the latest version of Appsmith. Refer to [Update Appsmith](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/update-appsmith#kubernetes) to update the version.
- Created a backup of your Appsmith instance. For instructions, see [Backup Appsmith Instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl?current-command-type=kubernetes-commands#backup-instance).

## Upgrade to Business Edition

Follow these steps to upgrade your Appsmith installation:

1. Create a folder named `appsmith-ee` on your machine for deployment and data storage. Then, navigate to this folder using the `cd` command.

2. Generate the business edition `values.yaml` with:

   ```bash
   helm show values appsmith-ee/appsmith > values.yaml
   ``` 

3. Add the Appsmith chart repository with:

   ```bash
   helm repo add appsmith-ee https://helm-ee.appsmith.com
   ```

4. Load the Appsmith chart repository with:

   ```bash
   helm repo update
   ```

5. Deploy Appsmith with:

   ```
   helm install appsmith appsmith-ee/appsmith -n appsmith --create-namespace
   ```

6. Restore the backup data using the [Restore Appsmith instance](https://docs.appsmith.com/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl?current-command-type=kubernetes-commands#restore-instance).

7. Restart the pods with:

   ```bash
   kubectl rollout restart statefulsets/appsmith -n <NAMESPACE>
   ```

8. Get pod name with:

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods
   ```

9. Verify the installation locally by forwarding port 8080 to 80 with:
 
   ```bash
   # Replace the <APPSMITH_POD_NAME> with the Appsmith pod name from the above command 
   kubectl --namespace appsmith port-forward <APPSMITH_POD_NAME> 8080:80
   ```

10. Open [https://localhost](https://localhost) and wait for the server to come up. It can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, access Appsmith at [https://localhost](https://localhost).

11. Log into your Appsmith account and enter your license key to activate the instance.

12. After successfully verifying the Appsmith Business Edition installation, you may choose to delete the Community Edition namespace:

   ```bash
   kubectl delete ns <COMMUNITY_EDITION_NAMESPACE>
   ```

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues, continue to use the Community Edition installation and contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
