---
sidebar_position: 4
description: >-
  Allow external users to access applications built using Appsmith by inviting
  them to the workspace.
---

# Share Applications

Sharing applications in Appsmith allows you to collaborate with your team members or share your application with clients and customers. There are multiple ways to share your application in Appsmith. You can either share your workspace or share a specific application.

## Share a workspace

When you share a workspace with a user, they can access all the applications in that workspace. Follow the steps below to share a workspace:
1. Open the workspace homepage and navigate to the workspace you want to share.
2. Click **Share** from the right corner, enter the email of the user and select an appropriate role for them.
3. Click **Invite**.

## Share an application

:::info
Sharing an application is only available for the business edition.
:::
If you want the user to just have access to a specific application in a workspace, follow the steps below:

1. Open the app you want to share and click **Share** at the top right corner.
2. Enter the email of the user and select an appropriate role for them.
3. Click **Invite**.

If you are on Appsmith's community edition, the steps above still share the workspace with the invited user, thus giving access to all the applications in that workspace.

### Public applications

You can make your applications public and share them with users who are not part of your workspace. These external users do not need to authenticate to access the shared applications.

To make an application public, you can click on the **Share** button within the application and turn on the **Public Application** switch. Once enabled, a link to the application will be displayed in a modal. To share the application, simply copy the link and share it with your intended users. They will then be able to access the application without having to log in to your workspace.

:::tip
Only Administrators can make applications public.
:::

## Default roles

In Appsmith, default roles refer to the roles that are automatically generated by the system when you create an Instance or a Workspace. These roles are predefined and cannot be deleted by the user. There are three default roles provided by Appsmith:

1. **Administrator:** This role has full control over the Instance or Workspace, including the ability to manage users, billing, and permissions.
2. **Developer:** This role has permission to edit and create new applications, plugins, and datasources. They can also view and manage existing applications and pages.
3. **App Viewer:** This role has read-only access and can only view applications and pages. They cannot edit or make any changes to the Instance or Workspace.

The table below shows the permissions valid for the respective role:

|Role|	Create/Edit App |	View App | Make App Public | Invite Users | Manage Users |
|----|------------------|----------|-----------------|--------------|--------------|
| Administrator |	Yes |	Yes |	Yes |	Yes |	Yes |
|Developer |	Yes|	Yes|	No|	Yes|	No|
|App Viewer|	No|	Yes|	No|	Yes (only as App Viewer role)|	No|


* **Create/Edit App:** This permission allows users to create and edit applications within a workspace.
* **View App:** This permission allows users to view & use applications internal to the workspace
* **Make App Public:** This permission allows users to mark applications as accessible outside the workspace.
* **Invite Users:** This permission allows users to invite others with a role equal to or lower than theirs.
* **Manage Users.** This permission allows users to delete users from a workspace.

## Further reading

- Granular Access Control