---
description: Learn how to secure your custom domain on a self-hosted Appsmith instance by configuring SSL. This guide covers using Let’s Encrypt for automatic certificate management and setting up a custom SSL certificate for enhanced security.
---

# Custom Domain and SSL

This page explains how to configure SSL for your custom domain on a self-hosted Appsmith instance, ensuring secure HTTPS connections for your applications.

:::info
For Kubernetes installations, see [Configure TLS for Kubernetes](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain/configure-tls).
:::

## Prerequisites

Before configuring SSL for your custom domain, ensure you have the following:

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance installed. If not already installed, refer to the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides).  This guide assumes you are working with an existing installation.
2. A custom domain purchased from a domain provider, such as:
   - [GoDaddy](https://in.godaddy.com/help/create-a-subdomain-4080)
   - [Amazon Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-subdomain-route-53/)
   - [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/docs/networking/dns/how-to/add-subdomain/)
   - [NameCheap](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/9776/2237/how-to-create-a-subdomain-for-my-domain)
   - [Domain.com](https://www.domain.com/help/article/domain-management-how-to-update-subdomains)
3. Ports 80 and 443 must be open and accessible. If using custom ports, ensure they are also open and accessible.
4. Access to Admin Settings in your Appsmith instance.

## Configure SSL

You can use your custom domain with the HTTP protocol, even if you haven’t set up an SSL certificate. To ensure secure connections using HTTPS, it’s recommended to configure SSL. You can choose from the following two methods:

- [Set up Let’s Encrypt SSL certificate](#ssl-using-lets-encrypt-certificate) (recommended for most users)
- [Set up a custom SSL certificate](#ssl-using-custom-certificate)

### SSL using Let’s Encrypt certificate

:::warning Attention
Let's Encrypt does not support provisioning a certificate for ephemeral domain names since they are high-risk.
:::

Follow these steps to generate and maintain an SSL certificate for your custom domain using Let’s Encrypt:

1. Go to the _Admin Settings_ in your Appsmith instance.

2. Click **Advanced Settings** from the left navigation.

3. Add your custom domain name to the **Custom Domain** field.

4. Click the **SAVE & RESTART** button.

When Appsmith restarts, it will generate an SSL certificate for your custom domain. Access your Appsmith instance via HTTPS on port 443.

### SSL using custom certificate

Follow these steps to configure SSL using a custom SSL Certificate: 

1. Rename the certificate file as `fullchain.pem` and the key file as `privkey.pem`.
2. Verify that the private key file is valid by running the following command in the terminal:
   ```bash
   openssl pkey -in privkey.pem -pubout -outform pem | sha256sum
   ```
   When prompted enter the pass phrase. Take a note of the hash generated by the command.
3. Verify the public key in the certificate using this command:

   ```bash
   openssl x509 -in fullchain.pem -pubkey -noout -outform pem | sha256sum
   ```

   Verify the hash generated by above command with the hash generated by the command in step 2. Both checks produce matching hashes, confirming the integrity of the certificate and key pair.

4. Copy these files into the subdirectory `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>/ssl/`. Ensure that you change `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>` by the mounting volume directory available in the `docker-compose.yml`. For example, the default value is `./stacks`.

5. Go to the Admin Settings in your Appsmith instance. Under **Advanced Settings** - add your custom domain name to the **Custom Domain** field, and click the **SAVE & RESTART** button. You can also set up the custom domain using a [custom domain environment variable](/getting-started/setup/environment-variables#custom-domain).

6. Open the terminal, go to the Appsmith installation directory, and restart the container using the below command:
   ```bash
   docker-compose restart appsmith
   ```
   The container uses the certificate present in the `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>/ssl` folder.

## Troubleshooting

You may face SSL/TLS certificate error while configuring SSL, follow the below guide to troubleshoot:

* [SSL/TLS Certificate Error](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#ssltls-certification-errors)
* Verify logs for errors. For more information, see [Get Container logs](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/how-to-get-container-logs) guide.

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.


## See also
- [Configure Environment Variables](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/configure-using-environment-variables?current-platform=docker): Learn how to configure environment variables, which may be necessary when setting up TLS and Appsmith in Kubernetes.
- [Configure HTTP/HTTPS Proxy](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/http-proxy): Setup HTTP/HTTPS proxy if required for your deployment while configuring TLS or managing network traffic.
- [Configure TLS for Kubernetes](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain/configure-tls): Learn how to set up TLS for Appsmith on Kubernetes.
- [Install an SSL certificate on DigitalOcean](https://docs.digitalocean.com/support/how-do-i-install-an-ssl-certificate-on-a-droplet/): Follow this guide to configure SSL for your DigitalOcean Droplet.