website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain/README.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---
# Custom Domain and SSL

This page explains how to set up SSL for your custom domain on the Appsmith instance.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="0llo1exi4IY" title="How To Self-Host Appsmith With A Custom Domain" caption="Set up SSL for your Custom Domain on your self-hosted Appsmith Instance"/>

## Prerequisites
Before configuring SSL for your custom domain, make sure you have the following:
1. A domain name - You can get a custom domain from popular providers like [GoDaddy](https://in.godaddy.com/help/create-a-subdomain-4080), [Amazon Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-subdomain-route-53/), [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/docs/networking/dns/how-to/add-subdomain/), [NameCheap](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/9776/2237/how-to-create-a-subdomain-for-my-domain), and [Domain.com](https://www.domain.com/help/article/domain-management-how-to-update-subdomains).
2. Ports 80 and 443 are open and accessible.

You can use your custom domain with the HTTP protocol, even if you haven't set up an SSL certificate yet. However, it's recommended to configure SSL to ensure secure connections by using HTTPS. You can either set up [SSL using Let's Encrypt](#configure-ssl-with-lets-encrypt) or add a [custom certificate](#configure-custom-ssl) to secure your connections.


:::info
For Appsmith Kubernetes installation, see [How to configure TLS on Kubernetes](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes#configure-tls).
:::

## Configure SSL (HTTPS) with Let's Encrypt
Appsmith uses [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) to generate and maintain the certificate so that it remains up to date. On Appsmith, you can add your custom domain and auto generate an SSL certificate for it by using one of the following ways:

* [Admin settings](#admin-settings)
* [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

### Admin settings
You can use [Admin Settings](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#admin-settings) to set up a custom domain and generate an SSL certificate for it. The **Custom Domain** property is available under **Advanced** Settings. Add the domain name to the Custom Domain setting and click the **SAVE & RESTART** button. The SSL can be auto generated by using the Custom Domain setting for all your installation types except Kubernetes. For more information about how to set up TLS on Kubernetes, see [How to configure TLS for Appsmith Kubernetes installation](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes#configure-tls).

<figure>
  <img src="/img/setup-custom-domain-using-admin-settings.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Setup your custom domain using Admin settings"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Setup your custom domain using Admin settings</i></figcaption>
</figure>

When you restart Appsmith, it generates an SSL certificate for your custom domain. You can now use your custom domain mapped to port 443 via HTTPS to access Appsmith in your browser.

### Environment variables
Appsmith is deployed on a Docker container. To generate an SSL certificate, add the custom domain to the environment variable `APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN` in a `docker.env` file. Follow the steps below:

Navigate to the `docker.env` file located in the installation root folder. For example, if you are using Docker installation, you can locate the file in the `<PROJECT_ROOT>/stacks/configuration` file. Similarly, the file is in the `/home/ubuntu/appsmith/stacks/configuration` folder on AWS AMI.
1. Update the key `APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN` as shown below:

```yaml
APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN=<ADD_CUSTOM_DOMAIN_HERE>
```
2. Restart the Appsmith container by using the following command:

```bash
docker-compose restart appsmith
```
When you restart Appsmith, it generates an SSL certificate for your custom domain. Once the restart is successful, you can use your custom domain mapped to port 443 via HTTPS to access Appsmith in your browser.

## Configure custom SSL

:::info
If you want to configure a Custom SSL on your Heroku or DigitalOcean Appsmith installation platform, follow the steps as listed in the guides below:
* [How to Configure SSL for your Heroku dyno](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ssl)
* [How do I install an SSL Certificate on a DigitalOcean Droplet](https://docs.digitalocean.com/support/how-do-i-install-an-ssl-certificate-on-a-droplet/)
:::

If you already have an SSL Certificate and want to use that, follow the steps listed below:

1. Rename the certificate file as `fullchain.pem` and the key file as `privkey.pem`.
2. Copy these files into the subdirectory `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>/ssl/`. Ensure that you change `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>` by the mounting volume directory available in the `docker-compose.yml`. For example, the default value is `./stacks`.
3. Add your Custom Domain to the environment variable `APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN` in the `docker.env` file.
4. Restart the container using `docker-compose restart appsmith`

The container uses the certificate if the files are present in the `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>/ssl` folder.


## Troubleshooting

If you’re having issues accessing Appsmith after Appsmith SSL Configuration, please see the [Unable to Access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith) troubleshooting guide. 

## Further reading
- [Container logs](/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/how-to-get-container-logs)
- [Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)

Commit message:

enhance: lets encrypt warn for high risk domain name

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain/README.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---
# Custom Domain and SSL

This page explains how to set up SSL for your custom domain on the Appsmith instance.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="0llo1exi4IY" title="How To Self-Host Appsmith With A Custom Domain" caption="Set up SSL for your Custom Domain on your self-hosted Appsmith Instance"/>

## Prerequisites
Before configuring SSL for your custom domain, make sure you have the following:
1. A domain name - You can get a custom domain from popular providers like [GoDaddy](https://in.godaddy.com/help/create-a-subdomain-4080), [Amazon Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-subdomain-route-53/), [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/docs/networking/dns/how-to/add-subdomain/), [NameCheap](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/9776/2237/how-to-create-a-subdomain-for-my-domain), and [Domain.com](https://www.domain.com/help/article/domain-management-how-to-update-subdomains).
2. Ports 80 and 443 are open and accessible.

You can use your custom domain with the HTTP protocol, even if you haven't set up an SSL certificate yet. However, it's recommended to configure SSL to ensure secure connections by using HTTPS. You can either set up [SSL using Let's Encrypt](#configure-ssl-with-lets-encrypt) or add a [custom certificate](#configure-custom-ssl) to secure your connections.


:::info
For Appsmith Kubernetes installation, see [How to configure TLS on Kubernetes](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes#configure-tls).
:::

## Configure SSL (HTTPS) with Let's Encrypt
Appsmith uses [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) to generate and maintain the certificate so that it remains up to date. On Appsmith, you can add your custom domain and auto generate an SSL certificate for it by using one of the following ways:

* [Admin settings](#admin-settings)
* [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
:::warn
Let's Encrypt does not support provisioning a certificate for ephemeral domain names since they are high-risk.
:::
### Admin settings
You can use [Admin Settings](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#admin-settings) to set up a custom domain and generate an SSL certificate for it. The **Custom Domain** property is available under **Advanced** Settings. Add the domain name to the Custom Domain setting and click the **SAVE & RESTART** button. The SSL can be auto generated by using the Custom Domain setting for all your installation types except Kubernetes. For more information about how to set up TLS on Kubernetes, see [How to configure TLS for Appsmith Kubernetes installation](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes#configure-tls).

<figure>
  <img src="/img/setup-custom-domain-using-admin-settings.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Setup your custom domain using Admin settings"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Setup your custom domain using Admin settings</i></figcaption>
</figure>

When you restart Appsmith, it generates an SSL certificate for your custom domain. You can now use your custom domain mapped to port 443 via HTTPS to access Appsmith in your browser.

### Environment variables
Appsmith is deployed on a Docker container. To generate an SSL certificate, add the custom domain to the environment variable `APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN` in a `docker.env` file. Follow the steps below:

Navigate to the `docker.env` file located in the installation root folder. For example, if you are using Docker installation, you can locate the file in the `<PROJECT_ROOT>/stacks/configuration` file. Similarly, the file is in the `/home/ubuntu/appsmith/stacks/configuration` folder on AWS AMI.
1. Update the key `APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN` as shown below:

```yaml
APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN=<ADD_CUSTOM_DOMAIN_HERE>
```
2. Restart the Appsmith container by using the following command:

```bash
docker-compose restart appsmith
```
When you restart Appsmith, it generates an SSL certificate for your custom domain. Once the restart is successful, you can use your custom domain mapped to port 443 via HTTPS to access Appsmith in your browser.

## Configure custom SSL

:::info
If you want to configure a Custom SSL on your Heroku or DigitalOcean Appsmith installation platform, follow the steps as listed in the guides below:
* [How to Configure SSL for your Heroku dyno](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ssl)
* [How do I install an SSL Certificate on a DigitalOcean Droplet](https://docs.digitalocean.com/support/how-do-i-install-an-ssl-certificate-on-a-droplet/)
:::

If you already have an SSL Certificate and want to use that, follow the steps listed below:

1. Rename the certificate file as `fullchain.pem` and the key file as `privkey.pem`.
2. Copy these files into the subdirectory `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>/ssl/`. Ensure that you change `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>` by the mounting volume directory available in the `docker-compose.yml`. For example, the default value is `./stacks`.
3. Add your Custom Domain to the environment variable `APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN` in the `docker.env` file.
4. Restart the container using `docker-compose restart appsmith`

The container uses the certificate if the files are present in the `<MOUNTING-DIRECTORY>/ssl` folder.


## Troubleshooting

If you’re having issues accessing Appsmith after Appsmith SSL Configuration, please see the [Unable to Access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith) troubleshooting guide. 

## Further reading
- [Container logs](/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/how-to-get-container-logs)
- [Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)
