website/docs/connect-data/concepts/Datasource-Environments.md, before:

# Datasource Environments

:::info
The Datasource environments feature is only available on [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing). This feature is still in Beta. If you have questions and would like to test this feature and share feedback, please contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page. 
:::

This page explains multiple datasource environments, which allows developers to isolate their testing datasources from their production datasources.


See how to [Setup Datasource Environments](/connect-data/how-to-guides/setup-datasource-environments).

## Overview

Datasource environments enable you to separate staging and production configurations of a datasource, providing controlled and isolated settings for specific tasks during different phases. This approach allows developers to test and validate changes without affecting the live production environment.

This allows you to create queries and switch between environments, with the queries automatically using the selected environment.

## Environments on Appsmith

Appsmith provides two environments: 

* **Staging**: Environment for development, QA, and user acceptance testing. You can make modifications and experiment with new features before pushing them to the production environment.

* **Production**: Live version with actual production data for end users. 

In Appsmith, environments work at the *Workspace* level. This means that all the applications within a workspace share the same configuration values for both staging and production environments.

For more information on permissions, you can refer to the [Granular Access Control.](/advanced-concepts/granular-access-control).

## Benefits of Datasource Environments

Some core benefits of using datasource environments include:

* **Isolation and Risk Management:** Datasource environments allow developers to separate testing, and production environments, reducing the risk of unintended modifications and providing a controlled environment for each stage of the software development cycle.

* **Efficient Development:** With datasource environments, developers can easily switch between different datasources without manually modifying connection parameters. This streamlines the development process and enables quick testing and iteration.

* **Flexible Testing:** Having separate staging environments facilitates thorough testing and quality assurance activities. QA teams can confidently test new features, perform regression testing, and validate the application's behavior before deploying to production.


:::info
When using datasource environments in Appsmith, only predefined staging and production environments are supported, and custom or user-defined environments are currently unavailable.
:::

Commit message:

feat: add tags instead of callouts (#1734)
## Changes
* A component for tags
* Styles for different types of tags
* Updates to pages to remove callouts and add tags.

## Fixes
#1707 

## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/connect-data/concepts/Datasource-Environments.md, after:

---
title: Datasource Environments
description: This page provides information about datasource environments in Appsmith.
hide_title: true
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1> Datasource Environments </h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Business", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "business" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

This page explains multiple datasource environments, which allows developers to isolate their testing and production datasources.

See how to [Setup Datasource Environments](/connect-data/how-to-guides/setup-datasource-environments).

## Overview

Datasource environments enable you to separate staging and production configurations of a datasource, providing controlled and isolated settings for specific tasks during different phases. This approach allows developers to test and validate changes without affecting the live production environment.

This allows you to create queries and switch between environments, with the queries automatically using the selected environment.

## Environments on Appsmith

Appsmith provides two environments:

- **Staging**: Environment for development, QA, and user acceptance testing. You can make modifications and experiment with new features before pushing them to the production environment.

- **Production**: Live version with actual production data for end users.

In Appsmith, environments work at the _Workspace_ level. This means that all the applications within a workspace share the same configuration values for both staging and production environments.

For more information on permissions, you can refer to the [Granular Access Control.](/advanced-concepts/granular-access-control).

## Benefits of Datasource Environments

Some core benefits of using datasource environments include:

- **Isolation and Risk Management:** Datasource environments allow developers to separate testing, and production environments, reducing the risk of unintended modifications and providing a controlled environment for each stage of the software development cycle.

- **Efficient Development:** With datasource environments, developers can easily switch between different datasources without manually modifying connection parameters. This streamlines the development process and enables quick testing and iteration.

- **Flexible Testing:** Having separate staging environments facilitates thorough testing and quality assurance activities. QA teams can confidently test new features, perform regression testing, and validate the application's behavior before deploying to production.

:::info
When using datasource environments in Appsmith, only predefined staging and production environments are supported, and custom or user-defined environments are currently unavailable.
:::
