website/docs/connect-data/concepts/dynamic-binding-in-queries.md, before:

---
title: Dynamic Binding in Queries
description: Bind data dynamically in queries.
---

The dynamic binding feature enables you to integrate user inputs into database and API queries.
You can bind values dynamically using the mustache syntax `{{ }}`. 
Appsmith sends payloads containing details of dynamic binding along with meta information when executing a query. During the evaluation, Appsmith replaces the mustache value with the actual value.

This page explains how dynamic binding works with queries and APIs in Appsmith.

### Database queries

With dynamic binding, you can populate query parameters at runtime.
For example, you have a SQL data source with a `users` table, and a [Select widget](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/select) named `userid`.

Use the following syntax to filter the data for the selected user id:

```js
select id, name, email, country
from users u where u.id = ({{userid.selectedOptionValue}})
```

### API queries

You can use dynamic binding with the following:
- URI path
- Query parameters
- Headers

#### URI path

You can dynamically bind values to the path in your API requests. Appsmith appends the evaluated value to the endpoint URL.
For example, you have a REST API `https://mock-api.appsmith.com`, and a [Select widget](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/select) named `apiversion`. 

Use the following syntax to append the selected api version dynamically:

```js
https://mock-api.appsmith.com/{{apiversion.selectedOptionValue}}
```

#### Query parameters

The dynamic binding feature lets you include parameters to any API request at runtime.
For example, you have a REST API `https://mock-api.appsmith.com`, and a [Select widget](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/select) named `indexid`.

Use the following syntax to append the parameter to the API endpoint dynamically:

```js
https://mock-api.appsmith.com/v1?{{<indexid.selectedOptionValue>}}
```

#### Headers

You can dynamically add request headers to your API requests using dynamic binding.
For example, you have a REST API `https://mock-api.appsmith.com`, and a [Select widget](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/select) named `applicationid`. 

<img src="/img/dynamic-binding-api-headers.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Dynamic binding in API headers"/>

Use the following syntax to populate the header values dynamically:

```js
{{applicationid.selectedOptionValue}}
```

:::caution 
Appsmith does not support dynamic binding in datasource configurations and recommends [multiple datasource environments](https://docs.appsmith.com/connect-data/how-to-guides/setup-datasource-environments).
If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
:::

Commit message:

Updates to include a generic example.

website/docs/connect-data/concepts/dynamic-binding-in-queries.md, after:

---
title: Dynamic Binding in Queries
description: Bind data dynamically in queries.
---

The dynamic binding feature enables you to integrate user inputs into database and API queries.
You can bind values dynamically using the mustache syntax `{{ }}`. 
Appsmith sends payloads containing details of dynamic binding along with meta information when executing a query. During the execution, Appsmith replaces the mustache value with the actual value.

This page explains how dynamic binding works with queries and APIs in Appsmith.

### Database queries

With dynamic binding, you can populate query parameters at runtime.
For example, you have a SQL data source with a `users` table, and a [Select widget](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/select) named `userid`.

Use the following syntax to filter the data for the selected user id:

```js
select id, name, email, country
from users u where u.id = {{userid.selectedOptionValue}}
```

### API queries

You can dynamically bind values to your API requests. Appsmith then appends the evaluated value to the endpoint URL. Dynamic binding also lets you construct JSON objects dynamically to include in your request bodies.

You can use dynamic binding with the following:
- URI path
- Query parameters
- Headers
- Body

For example, you have a REST API `https://mock-api.appsmith.com`, and a [Select widget](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/select) named `apiversion`. 

Use the following syntax to append the selected api version dynamically:

```js
https://mock-api.appsmith.com/{{apiversion.selectedOptionValue}}
```

:::caution 
Appsmith does not support dynamic binding in datasource configurations and recommends [multiple datasource environments](https://docs.appsmith.com/connect-data/how-to-guides/setup-datasource-environments).
If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
:::
