website/docs/getting-started/setup/deployment-architecture.md, before:

# Deployment Architecture

Appsmith can be accessed through the cloud by signing up at [app.appsmith.com](https://app.appsmith.com/user/sign-up), or it can be self-hosted using the setup instructions provided in the [self-hosted](/getting-started/setup#self-hosted) guide.

Appsmith provides Community, Business, and Enterprise [Editions](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing). These editions are extremely similar in build and architecture and are deployed as a single Docker container with a single volume for storing persistent data.

Read further to learn about how the Appsmith platform works under the hood.

## Self-hosted instance architecture

The diagram below illustrates the different components and how these services communicate with each other.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith_Deployment_Architecture.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Appsmith Deployment Architecture"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Appsmith Deployment Architecture</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## How it works

A single Docker container runs the following processes to deploy and get started with Appsmith:

1. The **Appsmith Server** (backend) as a Java process, which handles:
    1. Authentication: login credentials, OAuth 2.0 with [Google](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/google-login) and [GitHub](http://localhost:3000/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/github-login), SSO with [OIDC](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc) and [SAML](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml)
    2. A CRUD API for users, workspaces, applications, pages, and widgets
    3. An action execution module that executes your queries to your databases and APIs
    4. A git module that maintains clones of your Git-connected apps on the file system

2. The **NGINX Server**, which routes:
    1. Requests to static assets like Javascript, CSS, and images
    2. Incoming requests to the backend server, or the RTS depending on the request path
    3. Path-unidentified requests to an `index.html` page with a 200 status code. This is like a typical single-page application where the client React code is expected to understand the path and show the UI accordingly.

3. The **Realtime Server (RTS)**, a tiny NodeJS server that handles a few features such as mapping dependencies between APIs, queries, and web UI components. It also updates references for all reference-able entities when their names change in Appsmith.

4. The **MongoDB Server**, which stores all persistent data needed and generated by Appsmith’s building blocks, like:
    1. Your users’ details and permissions
    2. Workspaces you have created
    3. Applications you are building and have deployed
    4. Datasources you have connected to
    5. Queries that connect those datasources to your apps.

5. The **Redis Cache**, which is used for storing user sessions and cache permissions that a user has access to directly and indirectly.

## Process management

To manage the processes needed to function, Appsmith uses [Supervisor](http://supervisord.org/). This is a lightweight process manager that, when given a list of things to run, runs them, restarts them if they crash, and collects their logs for maintenance and debugging.

Supervisor comes with a command line tool called `supervisorctl` that's used to control these processes individually. For example, running `supervisorctl restart redis` restarts the Redis process. Or, as another example, the `Save and Restart` button under `Admin Settings` on the Appsmith UI is powered by the `supervisorctl` tool; clicking that button after making changes with the UI prompts the backend server to execute `supervisorctl restart backend`, which restarts the backend process.

When the user runs the Docker command to start the Appsmith container, Supervisor identifies which processes are required to start and run. This includes the backend server, the RTS, and the NGINX server, as well as any additional processes that haven't been plugged in by the user externally, such as a custom MongoDB or Redis instance.

For each of the processes in Appsmith, the container’s entry-point script (which Docker invokes when the container starts) generates a config file with all the details needed for the Supervisor daemon. For example, the config file generated for the backend Java server includes the full set of commands for starting the process, as well as all necessary environment variables and settings. This same entry-point script also helps set up SSL certificates and install custom CA roots.

## Deployment

Appsmith runs as a single Docker container, housing all five processes in one image via Supervisord. The Appsmith Cloud runs on geographically distanced [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/) clusters via AWS. This deployment strategy allows the Appsmith Cloud platform to be scale and avoid downtime during outages, as well as conduct rolling updates with minimal disruptions to service.

Commit message:

incremental updates
- updated introduction
- updated image to use figure tag.
- added description

website/docs/getting-started/setup/deployment-architecture.md, after:

---
description: The page provides information about the deployment architecture of Appsmith.
---
# Deployment Architecture

Appsmith can be accessed through the cloud by signing up at [app.appsmith.com](https://app.appsmith.com/user/sign-up), or self-hosted using the setup instructions provided in the [self-hosted](/getting-started/setup) guide. This page provides information about the deployment architecture of Appsmith.

## Self-hosted instance architecture

Appsmith is deployed as a single Docker container with a single volume for storing persistent data. The diagram below illustrates the different components and how these services communicate with each other.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith_Deployment_Architecture.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Appsmith Deployment Architecture"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Appsmith Deployment Architecture</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## How it works

A single Docker container runs the following processes to deploy and get started with Appsmith:

1. The **Appsmith Server** (backend) as a Java process, which handles:
    1. Authentication: login credentials, OAuth 2.0 with [Google](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/google-login) and [GitHub](http://localhost:3000/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/github-login), SSO with [OIDC](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc) and [SAML](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml)
    2. A CRUD API for users, workspaces, applications, pages, and widgets
    3. An action execution module that executes your queries to your databases and APIs
    4. A git module that maintains clones of your Git-connected apps on the file system

2. The **NGINX Server**, which routes:
    1. Requests to static assets like JavaScript, CSS, and images
    2. Incoming requests to the backend server, or the RTS depending on the request path
    3. Path-unidentified requests to an `index.html` page with a 200 status code. This is like a typical single-page application where the client React code is expected to understand the path and show the UI accordingly.

3. The **Realtime Server (RTS)**, a tiny NodeJS server that handles a few features such as mapping dependencies between APIs, queries, and web UI components. It also updates references for all reference-able entities when their names change in Appsmith.

4. The **MongoDB Server**, which stores all persistent data needed and generated by Appsmith’s building blocks, like:
    1. Your users’ details and permissions
    2. Workspaces you have created
    3. Applications you are building and have deployed
    4. Datasources you have connected to
    5. Queries that connect those datasources to your apps.

5. The **Redis Cache**, which is used for storing user sessions and cache permissions that a user has access to directly and indirectly.

## Process management

To manage the processes needed to function, Appsmith uses [Supervisor](http://supervisord.org/). This is a lightweight process manager that, when given a list of things to run, runs them, restarts them if they crash, and collects their logs for maintenance and debugging.

Supervisor comes with a command line tool called `supervisorctl` that's used to control these processes individually. For example, running `supervisorctl restart redis` restarts the Redis process. Or, as another example, the `Save and Restart` button under `Admin Settings` on the Appsmith UI is powered by the `supervisorctl` tool; clicking that button after making changes with the UI prompts the backend server to execute `supervisorctl restart backend`, which restarts the backend process.

When the user runs the Docker command to start the Appsmith container, Supervisor identifies which processes are required to start and run. This includes the backend server, the RTS, and the NGINX server, as well as any additional processes that haven't been plugged in by the user externally, such as a custom MongoDB or Redis instance.

For each of the processes in Appsmith, the container’s entry-point script (which Docker invokes when the container starts) generates a config file with all the details needed for the Supervisor daemon. For example, the config file generated for the backend Java server includes the full set of commands for starting the process, as well as all necessary environment variables and settings. This same entry-point script also helps set up SSL certificates and install custom CA roots.

## Deployment

Appsmith runs as a single Docker container, housing all five processes in one image via Supervisord. The Appsmith Cloud runs on geographically distanced [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/) clusters via AWS. This deployment strategy allows the Appsmith Cloud platform to be scale and avoid downtime during outages, as well as conduct rolling updates with minimal disruptions to service.
