website/docs/reference/widgets/audio.md, before:

# Audio

The Audio widget allows you to play a variety of URLs, including file paths, YouTube, Facebook, Twitch, SoundCloud, Streamable, Vimeo, Wistia, Mixcloud, and DailyMotion.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="FhY6-yUixto" title="How to use Audio Widget" caption="How to use Audio Widget"/>

## Properties

Properties allow you to edit the widget, connect it with other widgets and customize the user actions.

### Widget properties

These properties allow you to edit the Audio widget. All of these properties are present in the property pane of the widget. The following table lists all the widget properties.

| Property            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **URL**             | URL of the audio source to play.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **Auto Play**       | Plays audio automatically on page load, without any action from the user.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **Visible**         | Controls the widget's visibility on the page. When turned off: The widget isn't visible when the app is published. It appears translucent when in Edit mode.                                                                                    |
| **Animate Loading** | When turned off, the widget loads without any skeletal animation. You can use a toggle switch to turn it on/off. You can also turn it off/on using JavaScript by clicking the JS label next to it and writing code that evaluates to a _boolean_. |

### Binding properties

These properties allow you to bind your Audio widget with any other widget in queries or JS objects. The following table lists all the binding properties.

| Binding Property | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **autoPlay**     | Reflects the state of the widget's **Auto Play** setting _(bool)_.                                                                                 |
| **playState**    | Shows whether the Audio widget is currently playing sound. Represented by a _(string)_ with value "NOT\_STARTED", "PLAYING," "PAUSED," or "ENDED." |

### Events

You can define functions that are called when these events are triggered in the widget.

| Action      | Description                                                                                                                      |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **onPlay**  | Sets the action to run when the audio begins playing. See a list of [supported actions](../appsmith-framework/widget-actions/).  |
| **onPause** | Sets the action to run when the audio is paused. See a list of [supported actions](../appsmith-framework/widget-actions/).       |
| **onEnd**   | Sets the action to run when the audio ends. See a list of [supported actions](../appsmith-framework/widget-actions/).            |

Commit message:

fix: Audio Rehaul (#1253)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [x] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [x] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [x] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [x] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [x] added images only when necessary
- [x] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [x] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [x] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [x] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [x] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [x] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

---------

Co-authored-by: Dancia <32227135+danciaclara@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/reference/widgets/audio.md, after:

# Audio

This page provides information on how to use the Audio widget to play MP3, WAV, OGG audio files. It also supports URLs from YouTube, Facebook, Twitch, SoundCloud, Streamable, Vimeo, Wistia, Mixcloud, and DailyMotion. 

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="FhY6-yUixto" title="Using the Audio Widget" caption="Using the Audio Widget"/>

## Properties

Properties allow you to edit the widget, connect it with other widgets and customize the user actions.

### Widget properties

These properties allow you to edit the widget. All of these properties are present in the property pane of the widget.

| Property | Data type | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **URL**        |  String  | URL of the audio source to play. Supports MP3, WAV, OGG format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **Auto Play**     |   Boolean   | Plays audio automatically on page load, without any action from the user.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **Visible**       |   Boolean   | Controls the widget's visibility on the page.                                                                                     |
| **Animate Loading**  |   Boolean | Allows you to control a widget’s animation on the page load.|

### Reference properties

These properties allow you to bind your widget with any other widget in queries or JS objects. For instance, you can use `Audio1.isVisible` to get the visibility status.

| Property | Data type | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **autoPlay**   |   Boolean  | Reflects the state of the widget's **Auto Play** setting.                                                                                 |
| **playState**  |   String  | Shows whether the Audio widget is currently playing sound. Represented by a _(string)_ with value "NOT\_STARTED", "PLAYING," "PAUSED," or "ENDED." |
| **playing**  |   Boolean  | This property provides the playing state of the widget. |

## Events

When the event is triggered, these event handlers can run queries, JS code, or other supported [actions](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions)


| Events      | Description                                                                                                                       |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **onPlay**  | Sets the action to run when the audio begins playing.   |
| **onPause** | Sets the action to run when the audio is paused.    |
| **onEnd**   | Sets the action to run when the audio ends.            |
