website/docs/reference/widgets/modal.md, before:

---
Description: This page explains how to use the Modal widget to create a dialog in your app for displaying various types of content, such as alerts, confirmation pop-ups, forms, and more. It acts as a container used to group and handle related user inputs , and can be opened using actions such as setting a Button widget's onClick event. 
---
# Modal

This page provides information on using the Modal widget to create a dialog in your app for displaying various types of content, such as alerts, confirmation pop-ups, forms, and more. It acts as a container used to group and handle related user inputs , and can be opened using actions such as setting a Button widget's onClick event. 


<ZoomImage src="/img/modal-img.png" alt="Display images on table row selection" caption="Display Modal" />

## Content properties

These properties are customizable options present in the property pane of the widget, allowing users to modify the widget according to their preferences.

### General

#### Animate Loading `boolean`


<dd>

This property controls whether the widget is displayed with a loading animation. When enabled, the widget shows a skeletal animation during the loading process. Additionally, you can control it through JavaScript by clicking on the <code>JS</code> next to the property. The default value for the property is `true`.

</dd>

#### Quick Dismiss `boolean`


<dd>

Enables quick dismissal or closure of the Modal when the user taps outside the Modal.

</dd>

#### Height `string`


<dd>

This property determines how the widget's height adjusts to changes in its content. There are three available options:


* **Fixed**: Maintains a constant height for the widget, allowing you to adjust it by dragging or using the resize handle.
* **Auto Height**: The widget's height adjusts dynamically in response to changes in its content.
* **Auto Height with limits**: Same as **Auto height**, with a configurable option to set the minimum and maximum number of rows the widget can occupy.


</dd>

### Events

#### onClose

<dd>

Specifies the action (Framework functions, queries, or JS functions) to be performed when the Modal is closed.


</dd>

## Style properties

Style properties allow you to change the look and feel of the widget.

### Color

#### Background Color `string`

<dd>

Sets the background color of the widget, specified as a [CSS color value](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color). It can also be manipulated programmatically using the JavaScript functions.

</dd>

### Border and shadow

#### Border radius `string`

<dd>

Applies rounded corners to the outer edge of the widget. If JavaScript is enabled, you can specify valid [CSS border-radius](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius) to adjust the radius of the corners.

</dd>

## Reference properties

Reference properties are properties that are not available in the property pane but can be accessed using the dot operator in other widgets or JavaScript functions. They provide additional information or allow interaction with the widget programmatically. For instance, to get the visibility status, you can use `Modal1.isVisible`.


#### isVisible `boolean`

<dd>

Reflects whether the widget is visible or not.

*Example:*
```js
{{Modal1.isVisible}}
```

</dd>

#### name `string`

<dd>

Reflects the widget name of the modal.

*Example:*
```js
{{Modal1.name}}
```

</dd>


## Update data with Modal

The Modal widget can be used to view and edit data in a table. By displaying the details of a selected row in the Modal, users can easily make changes to the data. To open or close the Modal widget, you can make use of event listeners. 

1.  Fetch data from the sample **users** database using a SELECT query `fetchUserData`. 

2. Display the data by binding the query response to the **Table Data** property of the Table widget `tblUserData`, as shown below:

```js
{{fetchUserData.data}}
```

3.  Set Table's `onRowSelected` event to open a Modal widget, you can create a new Modal widget or select an existing one

:::note
Modal widget remains hidden on the canvas and becomes visible only when an event is triggered. You can access and edit the Modal widget from the entity explorer. 
:::

5. Next,  add [JSON form](/reference/widgets/json-form) inside the Modal widget, and edit the fields. For instance, if you plan to modify a user's `Date of Birth` and `Email`, you can edit the JSON Form widget accordingly.

6. Create a new `updateuserdata` query, to update the database:

```sql
UPDATE users
SET email = {{JSONForm.formData.email}}, dob = {{JSONForm.formData.dob}}
WHERE id = {{tblUserData.selectedRow.id}};
```

6. Set the JSON form's `onSubmit` event to run the `updateuserdata` query, which updates the `dob` and `email` fields of a specific user in the users' table based on the provided user ID.

7. To close the Modal, configure the onSuccess event to include a **Close Modal** action. This would close the Modal once the `updateuserdata` query has been successfully executed.

## See also
- [Insert Data](/build-apps/how-to-guides/insert-data#use-table)
- [Update Form data in Modal](/build-apps/how-to-guides/submit-form-data)
- [Edit Table Data Inline](/reference/widgets/table/inline-editing)
- [Display and Lookup Data in Table](/build-apps/how-to-guides/display-search-and-filter-table-data)
- [Create Data Drilldown View](/build-apps/how-to-guides/create-drill-down-view)

Commit message:

fix: Cross links (#2538)
## Description 

Provide a concise summary of the changes made in this pull request
- 

## Pull request type

Check the appropriate box:

- [ ] Review Fixes
- [ ] Documentation Overhaul
- [ ] Feature/Story
    - Link one or more Engineering Tickets
        * 
- [ ] A-Force
- [ ] Error in documentation
- [ ] Maintenance

## Documentation tickets

 Link to one or more documentation tickets:
 - 

## Checklist

From the below options, select the ones that are applicable:

- [ ] Checked for Grammarly suggestions.
- [ ] Adhered to the writing checklist.
- [ ] Adhered to the media checklist.
- [ ] Verified and updated cross-references or added redirect rules.
- [ ] Tested the redirect rules on deploy preview.
- [ ] Validated the modifications made to the content on the deploy
preview.
- [ ] Validated the CSS modifications on different screen sizes.

website/docs/reference/widgets/modal.md, after:

---
Description: This page explains how to use the Modal widget to create a dialog in your app for displaying various types of content, such as alerts, confirmation pop-ups, forms, and more. It acts as a container used to group and handle related user inputs , and can be opened using actions such as setting a Button widget's onClick event. 
---
# Modal

This page provides information on using the Modal widget to create a dialog in your app for displaying various types of content, such as alerts, confirmation pop-ups, forms, and more. It acts as a container used to group and handle related user inputs , and can be opened using actions such as setting a Button widget's onClick event. 


<ZoomImage src="/img/modal-img.png" alt="Display images on table row selection" caption="Display Modal" />

## Content properties

These properties are customizable options present in the property pane of the widget, allowing users to modify the widget according to their preferences.

### General

#### Animate Loading `boolean`


<dd>

This property controls whether the widget is displayed with a loading animation. When enabled, the widget shows a skeletal animation during the loading process. Additionally, you can control it through JavaScript by clicking on the <code>JS</code> next to the property. The default value for the property is `true`.

</dd>

#### Quick Dismiss `boolean`


<dd>

Enables quick dismissal or closure of the Modal when the user taps outside the Modal.

</dd>

#### Height `string`


<dd>

This property determines how the widget's height adjusts to changes in its content. There are three available options:


* **Fixed**: Maintains a constant height for the widget, allowing you to adjust it by dragging or using the resize handle.
* **Auto Height**: The widget's height adjusts dynamically in response to changes in its content.
* **Auto Height with limits**: Same as **Auto height**, with a configurable option to set the minimum and maximum number of rows the widget can occupy.


</dd>

### Events

#### onClose

<dd>

Specifies the action (Framework functions, queries, or JS functions) to be performed when the Modal is closed.


</dd>

## Style properties

Style properties allow you to change the look and feel of the widget.

### Color

#### Background Color `string`

<dd>

Sets the background color of the widget, specified as a [CSS color value](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color). It can also be manipulated programmatically using the JavaScript functions.

</dd>

### Border and shadow

#### Border radius `string`

<dd>

Applies rounded corners to the outer edge of the widget. If JavaScript is enabled, you can specify valid [CSS border-radius](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius) to adjust the radius of the corners.

</dd>

## Reference properties

Reference properties are properties that are not available in the property pane but can be accessed using the dot operator in other widgets or JavaScript functions. They provide additional information or allow interaction with the widget programmatically. For instance, to get the visibility status, you can use `Modal1.isVisible`.


#### isVisible `boolean`

<dd>

Reflects whether the widget is visible or not.

*Example:*
```js
{{Modal1.isVisible}}
```

</dd>

#### name `string`

<dd>

Reflects the widget name of the Modal.

*Example:*
```js
{{Modal1.name}}
```

</dd>


## Update data with Modal

The Modal widget can be used to view and edit data in a table. By displaying the details of a selected row in the Modal, users can easily make changes to the data. To open or close the Modal widget, you can make use of event listeners. 

1.  Fetch data from the sample **users** database using a SELECT query `fetchUserData`. 

2. Display the data by binding the query response to the **Table Data** property of the Table widget `tblUserData`, as shown below:

```js
{{fetchUserData.data}}
```

3.  Set Table's `onRowSelected` event to open a Modal widget, you can create a new Modal widget or select an existing one

:::note
Modal widget remains hidden on the canvas and becomes visible only when an event is triggered. You can access and edit the Modal widget from the entity explorer. 
:::

5. Next,  add [JSON form](/reference/widgets/json-form) inside the Modal widget, and edit the fields. For instance, if you plan to modify a user's `Date of Birth` and `Email`, you can edit the JSON Form widget accordingly.

6. Create a new `updateuserdata` query, to update the database:

```sql
UPDATE users
SET email = {{JSONForm.formData.email}}, dob = {{JSONForm.formData.dob}}
WHERE id = {{tblUserData.selectedRow.id}};
```

6. Set the JSON form's `onSubmit` event to run the `updateuserdata` query, which updates the `dob` and `email` fields of a specific user in the users' table based on the provided user ID.

7. To close the Modal, configure the onSuccess event to include a **Close Modal** action. This would close the Modal once the `updateuserdata` query has been successfully executed.


## See also
- [Insert Data](/build-apps/how-to-guides/insert-data#use-table) - Learn how to insert data into a Table widget, including setting up data sources and handling user input.
- [Update Form Data in Modal](/build-apps/how-to-guides/submit-form-data) - Discover how to update and submit form data within a Modal widget.
- [Edit Table Data Inline](/reference/widgets/table/inline-editing) - Find out how to edit table data directly within the Table widget, allowing for real-time changes.
- [Display and Lookup Data in Table](/build-apps/how-to-guides/display-search-and-filter-table-data) - Learn how to display, search, and filter data in a Table widget to make data management more efficient.
- [Create Data Drilldown View](/build-apps/how-to-guides/create-drill-down-view) - Understand how to create a drilldown view to explore data in detail using a Table or other data widgets.
