website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/github-login.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Configure GitHub OAuth to enable Login via GitHub for the Appsmith
  installation
sidebar_position: 2
---

# GitHub OAuth

Appsmith allows you to integrate with GitHub OAuth, enabling end users to sign in to the Appsmith account using their GitHub authentication credentials.

## Register OAuth app on GitHub

To enable GitHub Sign in, log in to your [GitHub Account](https://github.com) and follow the steps below:

1. In your profile drop-down, navigate to **Settings > Developer Settings > OAuth Apps** and click **Register a new application** to create and register a new OAuth App.

![Click to expand](</img/Github_Reg_App.png>)

2. Configure the following OAuth Credentials for a web application:

    1. **Homepage URL:** the domain on which you host Appsmith with HTTPS (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com`).

    2. **Authorization Callback URL:** append `/login/oauth2/code/github` to the Homepage URL (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com/login/oauth2/code/github`).

    ![Click to expand](</img/Github_App_Config.png>)

## Configure Appsmith instance  

:::caution
Test the Client ID and Client Secret before disabling Form login on Appsmith. This ensures that users can access Appsmith with their GitHub credentials. To fix an invalid GitHub configuration, update the environment variables.
:::

There are two ways to configure the self-hosted Appsmith instance - 
- Admin Settings
- Environment Variables

### Admin settings

Click **Admin Settings > Authentication > Enable**(GitHub). Add the `Client ID` and  `Client Secret`. Click the **Save & Restart** button at the bottom of the page. 

![](/img/as_github_auth_config.png)

### Environment variables

Update the values for the following keys in the instance configuration file, for example, in the `docker.env` file for Docker installation (`<PROJECT_ROOT>/stacks/configuration/`) and in the `values.yaml` file for Kubernetes:

* Configure the `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` and `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` fields with the client ID and client secret generated in the preceding step.
* Configure `APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS` with a second-level domain name (ex: `abc.com`), to only allow users with an email address from that domain name to log in (ex: `john@abc.com`). You can provide several domain names using a comma-separated list.
    
  ```bash
  # Example configuration in docker.env file
  # ********* GitHub OAuth **********
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET
  APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS=exampledomain.com
  # ******************************
   ```
* Restart the Appsmith instance. 

After these steps, your Appsmith installation should now enable GitHub Login. If you are running appsmith behind an ELB / Proxy, please update the [Nginx configuration](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#oauth-sign-up-not-working).

## Further reading

- [Instance Configuration](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration)
- [Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)

Commit message:

fix: add callout to mention env variable takes precedence over Admin settings (#1394)
## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/github-login.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Configure GitHub OAuth to enable Login via GitHub for the Appsmith
  installation
sidebar_position: 2
---

# GitHub OAuth

Appsmith allows you to integrate with GitHub OAuth, enabling end users to sign in to the Appsmith account using their GitHub authentication credentials.

## Register OAuth app on GitHub

To enable GitHub Sign in, log in to your [GitHub Account](https://github.com) and follow the steps below:

1. In your profile drop-down, navigate to **Settings > Developer Settings > OAuth Apps** and click **Register a new application** to create and register a new OAuth App.

![Click to expand](</img/Github_Reg_App.png>)

2. Configure the following OAuth Credentials for a web application:

    1. **Homepage URL:** the domain on which you host Appsmith with HTTPS (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com`).

    2. **Authorization Callback URL:** append `/login/oauth2/code/github` to the Homepage URL (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com/login/oauth2/code/github`).

    ![Click to expand](</img/Github_App_Config.png>)

## Configure Appsmith instance  

:::caution
Test the Client ID and Client Secret before disabling Form login on Appsmith. This ensures that users can access Appsmith with their GitHub credentials. To fix an invalid GitHub configuration, update the environment variables.
:::

There are two ways to configure the self-hosted Appsmith instance - 
- Admin Settings
- Environment Variables

### Admin settings

Click **Admin Settings > Authentication > Enable**(GitHub). Add the `Client ID` and  `Client Secret`. Click the **Save & Restart** button at the bottom of the page. 

![](/img/as_github_auth_config.png)

:::info
If you have set values using [environment variables](#environment-variables) for your instance, those values take precedence over values specified in the Admin Settings UI.
:::

### Environment variables

Update the values for the following keys in the instance configuration file, for example, in the `docker.env` file for Docker installation (`<PROJECT_ROOT>/stacks/configuration/`) and in the `values.yaml` file for Kubernetes:

* Configure the `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` and `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` fields with the client ID and client secret generated in the preceding step.
* Configure `APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS` with a second-level domain name (ex: `abc.com`), to only allow users with an email address from that domain name to log in (ex: `john@abc.com`). You can provide several domain names using a comma-separated list.
    
  ```bash
  # Example configuration in docker.env file
  # ********* GitHub OAuth **********
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET
  APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS=exampledomain.com
  # ******************************
   ```
* Restart the Appsmith instance. 

After these steps, your Appsmith installation should now enable GitHub Login. If you are running appsmith behind an ELB / Proxy, please update the [Nginx configuration](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#oauth-sign-up-not-working).

## Further reading

- [Instance Configuration](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration)
- [Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)
