website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/google-login.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Configure Google OAuth to enable login via Google for the Appsmith
  installation
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Google OAuth

Appsmith provides a way to integrate with Google OAuth 2.0, enabling end users to sign in to the Appsmith account using their Google authentication credentials.

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. A [Google Workspace](https://workspace.google.com/intl/en_in/) account.



## Configure Google API console

To enable Google Sign-in, go to the [Google API console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis) to get the authorization credentials that identify Appsmith to Google's OAuth 2.0 server. Create a new project and follow the steps below:

1. Navigate to the **OAuth consent screen** under **APIs & Services**. Choose how you want to configure and register your app, including your target users and click **Create**.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_OAuth_Consent_1.png>)

2. Configure the OAuth consent screen with information about the app and the **Authorized domains** where you are hosting Appsmith.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_OAuth_Consent.png>)

3. Navigate to the **Credentials** screen and click **Create Credentials**, select **OAuth client ID** from the options to create OAuth credentials.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_OAuth_Creds.png>)

4. Select **Web application** under the **Application type** dropdown list. Update the following fields:

    1. **Authorized JavaScript origins** - The HTTP origins that host your web application.  (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com`)
    2. **Authorized redirect URIs**  - Append the path that users should be redirected to after they have authenticated with Google (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com/login/oauth2/code/google`)

5. Click **Create**. You can get the Client ID and Client secret under **OAuth 2.0 Client IDs** in the **Credentials** screen.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_Oauth_Creds_2.png>)

## Configure Appsmith instance  

:::caution
Test the Client ID and Client Secret before disabling Form login on Appsmith. This ensures that users can access Appsmith with their Google credentials. To fix an invalid Google configuration, update the environment variables.
:::

There are two ways to configure the self-hosted Appsmith instance - 
- Admin Settings
- Environment Variables

### Admin settings

You can add the Client ID, Client Secret and allowed domains from [Admin Settings](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/). Go to **Admin Settings> Authentication> Google**, fill the required fields and click the **Save & Restart** button at the bottom of the page.

![Google authentication configuration image](/img/as_google_auth_config.png)

:::info
If you have set values using [environment variables](#environment-variables) for your instance, those values take precedence over values specified in the Admin Settings UI.
:::

### Environment variables

Update the values for the following keys in the instance configuration file, for example, in the `docker.env` file for Docker installation (`<PROJECT_ROOT>/stacks/configuration/`) and in the `values.yaml` file for Kubernetes:

* Configure the `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` fields with the client ID and client secret generated in the preceding step.
* Configure `APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS` with a second-level domain name (Eg: `abc.com`), to only allow users with an email address from that domain name to log in (Eg: `john@abc.com`). You can provide several domain names using a comma-separated list.
* Restart the Appsmith instance.
    
  ```bash
  # Example configuration in docker.env file
  # ******** Google OAuth ********
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_CLIENT_ID
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET
  APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS=exampledomain.com
  # ******************************
   ```

 
After these steps, Google Login should be enabled for your Appsmith installation.

## Further reading

- [Instance Configuration](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration)
- [Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)

Commit message:

fix: SAML SSO setup fails on kubernetes HA setup

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/google-login.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Configure Google OAuth to enable login via Google for the Appsmith
  installation
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Google OAuth

Appsmith provides a way to integrate with Google OAuth 2.0, enabling end users to sign in to the Appsmith account using their Google authentication credentials.

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. A [Google Workspace](https://workspace.google.com/intl/en_in/) account.



## Configure Google API console

To enable Google Sign-in, go to the [Google API console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis) to get the authorization credentials that identify Appsmith to Google's OAuth 2.0 server. Create a new project and follow the steps below:

1. Navigate to the **OAuth consent screen** under **APIs & Services**. Choose how you want to configure and register your app, including your target users and click **Create**.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_OAuth_Consent_1.png>)

2. Configure the OAuth consent screen with information about the app and the **Authorized domains** where you are hosting Appsmith.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_OAuth_Consent.png>)

3. Navigate to the **Credentials** screen and click **Create Credentials**, select **OAuth client ID** from the options to create OAuth credentials.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_OAuth_Creds.png>)

4. Select **Web application** under the **Application type** dropdown list. Update the following fields:

    1. **Authorized JavaScript origins** - The HTTP origins that host your web application.  (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com`)
    2. **Authorized redirect URIs**  - Append the path that users should be redirected to after they have authenticated with Google (Eg: `https://app.appsmith.com/login/oauth2/code/google`)

5. Click **Create**. You can get the Client ID and Client secret under **OAuth 2.0 Client IDs** in the **Credentials** screen.

  ![Click to expand](</img/Google_Oauth_Creds_2.png>)

## Configure Appsmith instance  

:::caution
Test the Client ID and Client Secret before disabling Form login on Appsmith. This ensures that users can access Appsmith with their Google credentials. To fix an invalid Google configuration, update the environment variables.
:::

There are two ways to configure the self-hosted Appsmith instance - 
- Admin Settings
- Environment Variables

### Admin settings

You can add the Client ID, Client Secret and allowed domains from [Admin Settings](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/). Go to **Admin Settings> Authentication> Google**, fill the required fields and click the **Save & Restart** button at the bottom of the page.

![Google authentication configuration image](/img/as_google_auth_config.png)

:::info
If you have set values using [environment variables](#environment-variables) for your instance, those values take precedence over values specified in the Admin Settings UI.
:::

### Environment variables

Update the values for the following keys in the instance configuration file, for example, in the `docker.env` file for Docker installation (`<PROJECT_ROOT>/stacks/configuration/`) and in the `values.yaml` file for Kubernetes:

* Configure the `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` fields with the client ID and client secret generated in the preceding step.
* Configure `APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS` with a second-level domain name (Eg: `abc.com`), to only allow users with an email address from that domain name to log in (Eg: `john@abc.com`). You can provide several domain names using a comma-separated list.
* Restart the Appsmith instance.
    
  ```bash
  # Example configuration in docker.env file
  # ******** Google OAuth ********
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_CLIENT_ID
  APPSMITH_OAUTH2_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET
  APPSMITH_SIGNUP_ALLOWED_DOMAINS=exampledomain.com
  # ******************************
   ```

:::info
If you're running Appsmith on a **Kubernetes** cluster with an HA configuration, after completing the setup, run the following command to ensure the new authentication settings are properly applied:

```js
kubectl rollout restart deployment/appsmith -n
```
:::
 
After these steps, Google Login should be enabled for your Appsmith installation.


## Further reading

- [Instance Configuration](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration)
- [Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)
