website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/json-web-tokens-jwt.md, before:

---
description: Reference to Identity and Access token
---
# Identity and Access Tokens

When you log in using the [OIDC](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc) protocol in Appsmith, you gain access to the identity and access tokens. These tokens can be used within your applications to implement custom logic and authorize API requests on behalf of the authenticated user.

:::info
**Identity and Access Tokens** can be accessed as part of [OpenID Connect (OIDC),](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc) available **only** in Appsmith's [**business edition**](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing).
:::

## Identity token

An ID token serves as a verified confirmation of a user's identity and includes essential information such as their name, picture, email address etc. According to the OpenID Connect (OIDC) specifications, when a user successfully logs in, Appsmith receives an ID token.

Appsmith provides the `idToken` parameter on the client side, allowing you to incorporate it into various operations like JavaScript functions, APIs, or queries as needed. You can read the value of an ID token in your APIs/Queries by using the mustache syntax `{{}}` as shown below:

```
{{appsmith.user.idToken}}
```
If you have defined custom scopes in your identity provider, the information associated with those scopes can be accessed within the Identity token.

## Access token

An access token is a self-contained object that holds claims, which are pieces of information about an entity. Unlike other tokens, you don't need to contact a server to validate an access token.

Once a user has successfully authenticated through a Single Sign-On (SSO) Provider, the access tokens can be used within Appsmith. The access token is stored on the server, and for security reasons, it is not accessible on the client side.

You can reference the access token using the placeholder `<<APPSMITH_USER_OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKEN>>`. This placeholder is automatically substituted with the access token of the currently logged-in user.

Commit message:

feat: Added rawIdToken content (#1672)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [x] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

---------

Co-authored-by: Nikhila Jain <99252011+jnikhila@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/json-web-tokens-jwt.md, after:

---
description: Reference to Identity and Access token
---
# Identity and Access Tokens

When you log in using the [OIDC](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc) protocol in Appsmith, you gain access to the identity and access tokens. These tokens can be used within your applications to implement custom logic and authorize API requests on behalf of the authenticated user.

:::info
**Identity and Access Tokens** can be accessed as part of [OpenID Connect (OIDC),](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc) available **only** in Appsmith's [**business edition**](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing).
:::

## Identity token

An ID token serves as a verified confirmation of a user's identity and includes essential information such as their name, picture, email address etc. According to the OpenID Connect (OIDC) specifications, when a user successfully logs in, Appsmith receives an ID token.

Appsmith provides the `idToken` on the client side, allowing you to incorporate it into various operations like JavaScript functions, APIs, or queries as needed. You can read the value of an ID token in your APIs/Queries by using the mustache syntax `{{}}` as shown below:

```
{{appsmith.user.idToken}}
```

`idToken` is also provided in its raw format for you to incorporate into API headers. You can read the value of an ID token in its raw format in your APIs/Queries by using the mustache syntax `{{}}` as shown below:

```
{{appsmith.user.rawIdToken}}
```

If you have defined custom scopes in your identity provider, the information associated with those scopes can be accessed within the Identity token.

## Access token

An access token is a self-contained object that holds claims, which are pieces of information about an entity. Unlike other tokens, you don't need to contact a server to validate an access token.

Once a user has successfully authenticated through a Single Sign-On (SSO) Provider, the access tokens can be used within Appsmith. The access token is stored on the server, and for security reasons, it is not accessible on the client side.

You can reference the access token using the placeholder `<<APPSMITH_USER_OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKEN>>`. This placeholder is automatically substituted with the access token of the currently logged-in user.
