website/docs/connect-data/integrations.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: Browse resources for integrating Appsmith with various third-party API datasources.
---

# Third-Party Integrations

Appsmith provides **native** integrations with many [datasources](/connect-data/reference/). Besides, Appsmith can also seamlessly connect with most other tools through the [REST API](/connect-data/reference/rest-api) plugin.

Browse through the tutorials below to see how to connect non-native datasources with Appsmith.

###             

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/activecampaign_logo.jpeg" alt="ActiveCampaign-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>ActiveCampaign</strong> offers software for customer experience automation.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/connecting-mixpanel-reply-io-and-activecampaign-using-appsmith-to-engage-with-your-users">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/apitemplate-logo.png" alt="APITemplate-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>APITemplate.io</strong> allows you to auto-generate images and PDF documents.<br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/build-a-tool-to-generate-pdf-files-with-apitemplate-and-n8n"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/appwrite-logo_DGkbk_MxO.png" alt="Appwrite-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Appwrite</strong> is a self-hosted BaaS platform that provides developers with all the  core APIs required to build any application.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uENmCvSusMI"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/bigquery-logo.png" alt="BigQuery-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>BigQuery</strong> is an enterprise data warehouse with tools for managing and analyzing your data.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/integrate-bigquery">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/brex-logo_CNZYG94J4.png" alt="Brex-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Brex</strong> offers business credit cards and cash management accounts to tech companies.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WSLex6f3yM">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/cube-logo_S50__hLNq.jpeg" alt="CubeJS-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Cube.js</strong> is headless business intelligence for building data applications. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-an-appsmith-dashboard-with-cube"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/fauna-logo_jSlqC25LH.jpeg" alt="Fauna-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Fauna</strong> is a distributed document-relational database delivered as a cloud API.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RQraazjdcac"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/HarperDB-Logo_GLE5XlPJ6.png" alt="HarperDB-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>HarperDB</strong> is a distributed database that supports key-value, document store, and traditional SQL.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-an-inventory-management-tool-using-harperdb">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/hasura-logo_T6L3JlHSt.png" alt="Hasura-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Hasura</strong> gives you instant GraphQL &#x26; REST APIs on new &#x26; existing data sources. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/e-commerce-order-management-dashboard-with-hasura-and-graphql"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/MariaDB-logo_kP1myud8_.png" alt="MariaDB-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>MariaDB</strong> is a community-developed, commercially supported fork of the MySQL RDBMS.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2DfCLf5ELN8"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/mixpanel-logo_nLTAstL7N.jpeg" alt="Mixpanel-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Mixpanel</strong> is a leading product analytics software company.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/connecting-mixpanel-reply-io-and-activecampaign-using-appsmith-to-engage-with-your-users">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/n8n-logo_8BFnDWE3s.png" alt="n8n-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>n8n</strong> is a free and source-available workflow automation tool. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-an-employee-survey-dashboard-with-supabase-and-n8n"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/notion-logo_nw3DY5mWz.png" alt="Notion-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Notion</strong> is a project management and note-taking software.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/using-the-notion-api-to-build-a-content-management-system"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/replyto-logo_6yaZHFIeU.jpeg" alt="Replyio-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Reply.io</strong> is a sales engagement platform that automates multichannel outreach.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/connecting-mixpanel-reply-io-and-activecampaign-using-appsmith-to-engage-with-your-users">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/rowy-logo_pkqwXawrdl.png" alt="Rowy-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Rowy</strong> is a low-code platform for building your product backend, all in the browser. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m-vSQRrar8A"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a></div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/shopify-logo_3YbQ78SX7.png" alt="Shopify-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Shopify</strong> is an e-commerce platform for online stores and retail point-of-sale systems.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-a-shopify-admin-panel-a-step-by-step-guide"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/Slack-logo.png" alt="Slack-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Slack</strong> is a messaging program designed specifically for the workplace.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-a-daily-standup-application-in-30-minutes">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/supabase-logo_JCWmwonfL.png" alt="Supabase-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Supabase</strong> is an open source Firebase alternative. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/build-an-equipment-checkout-app-for-the-admin-team-at-your-company"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one">
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/xano-logo_nnco8rx_b.png" alt="Xano-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Xano</strong> is the fastest no-code backend development platform.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/adding-social-authentication"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two">
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/zapier-logo_odZ9wZQ3vY.jpeg" alt="Zapier-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Zapier</strong> allows end users to integrate the web applications they use and automate workflows.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/want-to-automate-your-apps-use-zapier-to-connect-specialized-platforms">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
    </div>
</div>

Commit message:

fix: Moved datasource Integrations page (#1615)
This PR moves the datasource third-party integrations resource page into
How-To Guides, and updates its page intro.

Resolves #1614 

### Review adjustments:
- Kept page URL "connect-data/integations", only moved its _folder_ in
sidebars.js
    - Rm'd new redirect accordingly

## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

---------

Co-authored-by: danciaclara <claradancia20@gmail.com>

website/docs/connect-data/integrations.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: Browse resources for integrating Appsmith with various third-party API datasources.
---

# Integrate With Third-Party Tools

This page offers resources to guide you in connecting Appsmith to many third-party tools via API.          

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/activecampaign_logo.jpeg" alt="ActiveCampaign-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>ActiveCampaign</strong> offers software for customer experience automation.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/connecting-mixpanel-reply-io-and-activecampaign-using-appsmith-to-engage-with-your-users">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/apitemplate-logo.png" alt="APITemplate-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>APITemplate.io</strong> allows you to auto-generate images and PDF documents.<br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/build-a-tool-to-generate-pdf-files-with-apitemplate-and-n8n"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/appwrite-logo_DGkbk_MxO.png" alt="Appwrite-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Appwrite</strong> is a self-hosted BaaS platform that provides developers with all the  core APIs required to build any application.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uENmCvSusMI"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/bigquery-logo.png" alt="BigQuery-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>BigQuery</strong> is an enterprise data warehouse with tools for managing and analyzing your data.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/integrate-bigquery">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/brex-logo_CNZYG94J4.png" alt="Brex-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Brex</strong> offers business credit cards and cash management accounts to tech companies.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WSLex6f3yM">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/cube-logo_S50__hLNq.jpeg" alt="CubeJS-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Cube.js</strong> is headless business intelligence for building data applications. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-an-appsmith-dashboard-with-cube"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/fauna-logo_jSlqC25LH.jpeg" alt="Fauna-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Fauna</strong> is a distributed document-relational database delivered as a cloud API.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RQraazjdcac"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/HarperDB-Logo_GLE5XlPJ6.png" alt="HarperDB-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>HarperDB</strong> is a distributed database that supports key-value, document store, and traditional SQL.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-an-inventory-management-tool-using-harperdb">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/hasura-logo_T6L3JlHSt.png" alt="Hasura-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Hasura</strong> gives you instant GraphQL &#x26; REST APIs on new &#x26; existing data sources. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/e-commerce-order-management-dashboard-with-hasura-and-graphql"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/MariaDB-logo_kP1myud8_.png" alt="MariaDB-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>MariaDB</strong> is a community-developed, commercially supported fork of the MySQL RDBMS.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2DfCLf5ELN8"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/mixpanel-logo_nLTAstL7N.jpeg" alt="Mixpanel-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Mixpanel</strong> is a leading product analytics software company.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/connecting-mixpanel-reply-io-and-activecampaign-using-appsmith-to-engage-with-your-users">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/n8n-logo_8BFnDWE3s.png" alt="n8n-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>n8n</strong> is a free and source-available workflow automation tool. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-an-employee-survey-dashboard-with-supabase-and-n8n"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/notion-logo_nw3DY5mWz.png" alt="Notion-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Notion</strong> is a project management and note-taking software.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/using-the-notion-api-to-build-a-content-management-system"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/replyto-logo_6yaZHFIeU.jpeg" alt="Replyio-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Reply.io</strong> is a sales engagement platform that automates multichannel outreach.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/connecting-mixpanel-reply-io-and-activecampaign-using-appsmith-to-engage-with-your-users">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/rowy-logo_pkqwXawrdl.png" alt="Rowy-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Rowy</strong> is a low-code platform for building your product backend, all in the browser. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m-vSQRrar8A"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a></div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/shopify-logo_3YbQ78SX7.png" alt="Shopify-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Shopify</strong> is an e-commerce platform for online stores and retail point-of-sale systems.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-a-shopify-admin-panel-a-step-by-step-guide"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/Slack-logo.png" alt="Slack-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Slack</strong> is a messaging program designed specifically for the workplace.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/building-a-daily-standup-application-in-30-minutes">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/supabase-logo_JCWmwonfL.png" alt="Supabase-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Supabase</strong> is an open source Firebase alternative. <br/><br/> </div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/build-an-equipment-checkout-app-for-the-admin-team-at-your-company"><strong>View Tutorial</strong> </a>
         </div>
    </div>
</div>

<div class="containerGrid">
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one">
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/xano-logo_nnco8rx_b.png" alt="Xano-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Xano</strong> is the fastest no-code backend development platform.<br/><br/></div>
         <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/adding-social-authentication"><strong>View Tutorial</strong></a> </div>
    </div>
    <div class="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-two">
        <div class="containerCol">
            <img class="containerImage" src="/img/zapier-logo_odZ9wZQ3vY.jpeg" alt="Zapier-logo"/>
        </div> <hr/>
        <div class="containerDescription"><strong>Zapier</strong> allows end users to integrate the web applications they use and automate workflows.<br/><br/>  </div>
        <div class="containerTutorialLink"><a href="https://www.appsmith.com/blog/want-to-automate-your-apps-use-zapier-to-connect-specialized-platforms">
        <strong >View Tutorial </strong></a></div>
    </div>
    <div class="columnGrid column-three" style={{padding:"20px"}}>
    </div>
</div>
