website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/README.mdx, before:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Kubernetes (k8s)

This page provides steps to install Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

<VideoEmbed
  host="youtube"
  videoId="wZzYL1uZwds"
  title="How To Deploy Appsmith On Kubernetes"
  caption="How To Deploy Appsmith On Kubernetes"
/>

## System requirements

- At least 15 GB of free storage space.
- 4 GB of RAM.

## Prerequisites

1. Install Helm package manager on your local machine. See the official Helm documentation for your [operating system](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#through-package-managers).
2. Install and configure `kubectl` to interact with your Kubernetes cluster. Follow the below guides available on the official Kubernetes documentation for instructions on how to install `kubectl` on your specific operating system:
   - [MacOS using Homebrew](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/#install-with-homebrew-on-macos)
   - [Linux using native package management](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/#install-using-native-package-management)
   - [Windows using Chocolatey, Scoop, or winget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-windows/#install-nonstandard-package-tools).
3. Set up a Kubernetes cluster. Follow these steps using a terminal to set up the cluster on AWS EKS:

  :::info
  You are free to choose your preferred platform for hosting the Kubernetes cluster. Make sure you have configured Kubeconfig and created a default storage class before proceeding with the Appsmith installation. If you face any issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
  :::

    a. Verify if you have access to AWS CLI with:

    ```bash
      aws sts get-caller-identity
    ```

    The above command provides information related to your account and ARN, indicating that you can connect and access your Amazon account using a terminal.

    b. Create KubeConfig with:

    ```bash
    aws eks update-kubeconfig --region ap-south-1 --name CLUSTER_NAME  --profile <PROFILE_NAME>
    ```
    In the above command, add the profile name that has access to the EKS cluster to the `--profile` parameter.

    c. Test your Kubernetes configuration with:

    ```bash
    kubectl cluster-info
    ```
    The above command provides a summary of the current cluster configuration, including the Kubernetes master and other cluster information.

    d. Define a storage class.

    * For Kubernetes version earlier than `1.23`, define the storage class with:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
      apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
      kind: StorageClass
      apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
      metadata:
        name: gp2
      provisioner: kubernetes.io/aws-ebs
      EOF
    ```
    * For Kubernetes version `1.23` and later, define the storage class with:
      1. Create an IAM role by following the Amazon official documentation for [Creating the Amazon EBS CSI driver IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/csi-iam-role.html).
      2. Add the Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver chart repository with:
        ```bash
        helm repo add aws-ebs-csi-driver https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-ebs-csi-driver
        ```
      3. Update the Amazon EBS CSI driver repository with:
        ```bash
        helm repo update
        ```
      4. Install Amazon EBS CSI driver with:
        ```bash
        helm upgrade --install aws-ebs-csi-driver --namespace kube-system aws-ebs-csi-driver aws-ebs-csi-driver
        ```
      5. Verify the Amazon EBS CSI driver installation with:
        ```
        kubectl get pods -n kube-system -l app.kubernetes.io/name=aws-ebs-csi-driver
        ```

## Install Appsmith

Follow these steps to install Appsmith:

1. Create a folder named `appsmith` on your machine for deployment and data storage. Then, navigate to this folder using the `cd` command.

<a id="update-helm-command"></a>

2. Add the Appsmith chart repository with:

```bash
helm repo add appsmith-ee https://helm-ee.appsmith.com
```

3. Load the Appsmith chart repository with:

```bash
helm repo update
```

4. Generate the `values.yaml` file with:

```bash
helm show values appsmith-ee/appsmith  > values.yaml
```

5. Run the below command to deploy Appsmith:

```bash
helm install appsmith-ee appsmith-ee/appsmith -n appsmith-ee --create-namespace -f values.yaml
```

6. Get pod name with:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n appsmith-ee
```

The above command displays the status of the pods. Proceed to the next step once the pod status is shown as _RUNNING_.

7. To access and verify the installation locally, use the below command that forwards the port 8080 to port 80:

```bash
kubectl --namespace appsmith-ee port-forward appsmith-ee-0 8080:80
```

In the above command, `appsmith-ee-0` is the Appsmith pod name.

8. Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) and wait for the server to come up. This can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, you can access Appsmith at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

9. Fill in your details to create an administrator account.

10. Once you've created an account, you can either start with the free plan or activate your instance with a license key. If you want to generate a license key, sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) to create one, and then proceed to activate your instance using the newly generated license key.

For high availability and scalability configuration, see the [Configure High Availability and Scalability](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/configure-high-availability) guide. To expose Appsmith installation on the internet, see the [Expose K8s to Internet](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/publish-appsmith-online) guide.

## Install Appsmith Community

To install the Appsmith open source edition (Appsmith Community):

1. Use the open source helm chart by running the below command which adds the Appsmith chart repository:

```bash
helm repo add appsmith https://helm.appsmith.com
```

2. Replace `appsmith-ee` with `appsmith` in the commands on this page.

## Troubleshooting

If you are facing issues during deployment, please refer to the guide on [troubleshooting deployment errors](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors).

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading

- [Configure High Availability and Scalability](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/configure-high-availability)
- [Expose K8s to Internet](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/publish-appsmith-online)
- [Configure Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#configure-helm-installations)
- [Manage your Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)

Commit message:

[add]: persistent volume requirement in kubernetes

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/README.mdx, after:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Kubernetes (k8s)

This page provides steps to install Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

<VideoEmbed
  host="youtube"
  videoId="wZzYL1uZwds"
  title="How To Deploy Appsmith On Kubernetes"
  caption="How To Deploy Appsmith On Kubernetes"
/>

## System requirements

- At least 15 GB of free storage space.
- Incase you are deploying on a cloud-provider like AWS,GCP you need a persistent volume.
- 4 GB of RAM.

## Prerequisites

1. Install Helm package manager on your local machine. See the official Helm documentation for your [operating system](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#through-package-managers).
2. Install and configure `kubectl` to interact with your Kubernetes cluster. Follow the below guides available on the official Kubernetes documentation for instructions on how to install `kubectl` on your specific operating system:
   - [MacOS using Homebrew](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/#install-with-homebrew-on-macos)
   - [Linux using native package management](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/#install-using-native-package-management)
   - [Windows using Chocolatey, Scoop, or winget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-windows/#install-nonstandard-package-tools).
3. Set up a Kubernetes cluster. Follow these steps using a terminal to set up the cluster on AWS EKS:

  :::info
  You are free to choose your preferred platform for hosting the Kubernetes cluster. Make sure you have configured Kubeconfig and created a default storage class before proceeding with the Appsmith installation. If you face any issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
  :::

    a. Verify if you have access to AWS CLI with:

    ```bash
      aws sts get-caller-identity
    ```

    The above command provides information related to your account and ARN, indicating that you can connect and access your Amazon account using a terminal.

    b. Create KubeConfig with:

    ```bash
    aws eks update-kubeconfig --region ap-south-1 --name CLUSTER_NAME  --profile <PROFILE_NAME>
    ```
    In the above command, add the profile name that has access to the EKS cluster to the `--profile` parameter.

    c. Test your Kubernetes configuration with:

    ```bash
    kubectl cluster-info
    ```
    The above command provides a summary of the current cluster configuration, including the Kubernetes master and other cluster information.

    d. Define a storage class.

    * For Kubernetes version earlier than `1.23`, define the storage class with:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
      apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
      kind: StorageClass
      apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
      metadata:
        name: gp2
      provisioner: kubernetes.io/aws-ebs
      EOF
    ```
    * For Kubernetes version `1.23` and later, define the storage class with:
      1. Create an IAM role by following the Amazon official documentation for [Creating the Amazon EBS CSI driver IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/csi-iam-role.html).
      2. Add the Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver chart repository with:
        ```bash
        helm repo add aws-ebs-csi-driver https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-ebs-csi-driver
        ```
      3. Update the Amazon EBS CSI driver repository with:
        ```bash
        helm repo update
        ```
      4. Install Amazon EBS CSI driver with:
        ```bash
        helm upgrade --install aws-ebs-csi-driver --namespace kube-system aws-ebs-csi-driver aws-ebs-csi-driver
        ```
      5. Verify the Amazon EBS CSI driver installation with:
        ```
        kubectl get pods -n kube-system -l app.kubernetes.io/name=aws-ebs-csi-driver
        ```

## Install Appsmith

Follow these steps to install Appsmith:

1. Create a folder named `appsmith` on your machine for deployment and data storage. Then, navigate to this folder using the `cd` command.

<a id="update-helm-command"></a>

2. Add the Appsmith chart repository with:

```bash
helm repo add appsmith-ee https://helm-ee.appsmith.com
```

3. Load the Appsmith chart repository with:

```bash
helm repo update
```

4. Generate the `values.yaml` file with:

```bash
helm show values appsmith-ee/appsmith  > values.yaml
```

5. Run the below command to deploy Appsmith:

```bash
helm install appsmith-ee appsmith-ee/appsmith -n appsmith-ee --create-namespace -f values.yaml
```

6. Get pod name with:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n appsmith-ee
```

The above command displays the status of the pods. Proceed to the next step once the pod status is shown as _RUNNING_.

7. To access and verify the installation locally, use the below command that forwards the port 8080 to port 80:

```bash
kubectl --namespace appsmith-ee port-forward appsmith-ee-0 8080:80
```

In the above command, `appsmith-ee-0` is the Appsmith pod name.

8. Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) and wait for the server to come up. This can take up to 5 minutes. Once the server is up and running, you can access Appsmith at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

9. Fill in your details to create an administrator account.

10. Once you've created an account, you can either start with the free plan or activate your instance with a license key. If you want to generate a license key, sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) to create one, and then proceed to activate your instance using the newly generated license key.

For high availability and scalability configuration, see the [Configure High Availability and Scalability](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/configure-high-availability) guide. To expose Appsmith installation on the internet, see the [Expose K8s to Internet](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/publish-appsmith-online) guide.

## Install Appsmith Community

To install the Appsmith open source edition (Appsmith Community):

1. Use the open source helm chart by running the below command which adds the Appsmith chart repository:

```bash
helm repo add appsmith https://helm.appsmith.com
```

2. Replace `appsmith-ee` with `appsmith` in the commands on this page.

## Troubleshooting

If you are facing issues during deployment, please refer to the guide on [troubleshooting deployment errors](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors).

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading

- [Configure High Availability and Scalability](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/configure-high-availability)
- [Expose K8s to Internet](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/publish-appsmith-online)
- [Configure Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#configure-helm-installations)
- [Manage your Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)
