website/docs/core-concepts/writing-code/ext-libraries.md, before:

# Use External JS Libraries

You can install custom libraries to help you build complex applications and business logic. Custom Javascript libraries enable complex use cases like PDF generation, CSV Parsing, & authentication.

 <VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="xXssLXQvdyY" title="How To Use Custom JavaScript Libraries" caption="How To Use JavaScript Libraries"/>

### Install external library

Appsmith provides a set of recommended libraries that you can install by clicking the + icon next to libraries in the entity explorer and clicking on the install icon next to the library.
If you want to install a specific library that you found online, the steps are:

- Find a [compatible](#library-compatibility) distribution of the library on a popular CDN service like [jsDelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/) or [UNPKG](https://unpkg.com/)
- Copy the URL to its index file
- Navigate to the Explorer tab
- Click the `+` sign next to `Libraries`
- Paste the URL into the designated field
- Click `Install`

Example URL:

```URL
https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/exceljs@4.3.0/dist/exceljs.min.js
```

### Library compatibility

Appsmith only supports libraries that have **[UMD](https://github.com/umdjs/umd)** builds. The index file for most compatible libraries can be found under the `root`, `/umd` or `/browser` folders and have a `.min.js` file extension. If a library you wish to use doesn't support a UMD build, you may use [browserify](https://browserify.org/) to generate one and host it in a CDN of your choice.

✅ Valid URL: `https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/exceljs@4.3.0/dist/exceljs.min.js`

❌ Invalid URL: unsupported build format: `https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/uuid@9.0.0/dist/index.js`

❌ Invalid URL: doesn't point to the index file: `https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/datejs`

Appsmith also does not support libraries

- Libraries that manipulate the DOM
- Libraries that reply on making XHR requests
- Libraries that try to invoke or access certain browser methods
  - setInterval
  - clearInterval
  - localStorage
  - setImmediate
  - navigator

### Accessing installed libraries

External libraries once installed can be accessed as an object anywhere you can write Javascript in Appsmith. For information about the signature of the JavaScript libraries, see their official documentation.

#### Example

You can install excelJS library using this URL

```
https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/exceljs
```

You can write code to create a workbook in a JS function as below

```javascript
createWorkbook: async () => {
  const workbook = new ExcelJS.Workbook();

  workbook.creator = "Tomato";
  workbook.lastModifiedBy = "Tomato";
  workbook.created = new Date();
  workbook.modified = new Date();
  workbook.calcProperties.fullCalcOnLoad = true;

  const worksheet = workbook.addWorksheet("Tomato page 1", {
    properties: { tabColor: { argb: "#FF0000" } },
    pageSetup: { paperSize: 9, orientation: "landscape" },
  });

  worksheet.getCell("A1").value = "Hello, World!";
  worksheet.getCell("B1").value = "What time is it?";
  worksheet.getCell("A2").value = 7;
  worksheet.getCell("B2").value = "12pm";

  const buf = await workbook.xlsx.writeBuffer();
  const blob = new Blob([buf], {
    type: "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet",
  });
  const url = URL.createObjectURL(blob);

  await download(url, "test.xls");
};
```

### Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing difficulties installing external libraries, you can refer to the [JavaScript Errors troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/js-errors) or reach out to the support team via the chat widget on this page.

Commit message:

Updates the doc with support for ESM libraries

website/docs/core-concepts/writing-code/ext-libraries.md, after:

# Use External JS Libraries

You can install custom libraries to help you build complex applications and business logic. Custom Javascript libraries enable complex use cases like PDF generation, CSV Parsing, & authentication.

 <VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="xXssLXQvdyY" title="How To Use Custom JavaScript Libraries" caption="How To Use JavaScript Libraries"/>

### Install external library

Appsmith provides a set of recommended libraries that you can install by clicking the + icon next to libraries in the entity explorer and clicking on the install icon next to the library.
If you want to install a specific library that you found online, the steps are:

- Find a [compatible](#library-compatibility) distribution of the library on a popular CDN service like [jsDelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/) or [UNPKG](https://unpkg.com/)
- Copy the URL to its index file
- Navigate to the Explorer tab
- Click the `+` sign next to `Libraries`
- Paste the URL into the designated field
- Click `Install`

Example URL:

```URL
https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/exceljs@4.3.0/dist/exceljs.min.js
```

### Library compatibility

Appsmith supports libraries that are written in [ESM](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-modules) or **[UMD](https://github.com/umdjs/umd)** pattern. ESM are the official standard format to package JavaScript code for reuse. ES Modules are defined using a variety of import and export statements. If the library you wish to use is not written in ESM, try looking an index file under the `root`, `/umd` or `/browser` folders and have a `.min.js` file extension. You may optionally use [browserify](https://browserify.org/) to generate a UMD build and host it in a CDN of your choice.

✅ Valid URL: `https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/openai@4.19.0/+esm`

✅ Valid URL: `https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/exceljs@4.3.0/dist/exceljs.min.js`

❌ Invalid URL: unsupported build format: `https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/uuid@9.0.0/dist/index.js`

❌ Invalid URL: doesn't point to the index file: `https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/datejs`

Appsmith also does not support libraries

- Libraries that manipulate the DOM
- Libraries that reply on making XHR requests
- Libraries that try to invoke or access certain browser methods
  - setInterval
  - clearInterval
  - localStorage
  - setImmediate
  - navigator

### Accessing installed libraries

External libraries once installed can be accessed as an object anywhere you can write Javascript in Appsmith. For information about the signature of the JavaScript libraries, see their official documentation.

#### Example

You can install excelJS library using this URL

```
https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/exceljs
```

You can write code to create a workbook in a JS function as below

```javascript
createWorkbook: async () => {
  const workbook = new ExcelJS.Workbook();

  workbook.creator = "Tomato";
  workbook.lastModifiedBy = "Tomato";
  workbook.created = new Date();
  workbook.modified = new Date();
  workbook.calcProperties.fullCalcOnLoad = true;

  const worksheet = workbook.addWorksheet("Tomato page 1", {
    properties: { tabColor: { argb: "#FF0000" } },
    pageSetup: { paperSize: 9, orientation: "landscape" },
  });

  worksheet.getCell("A1").value = "Hello, World!";
  worksheet.getCell("B1").value = "What time is it?";
  worksheet.getCell("A2").value = 7;
  worksheet.getCell("B2").value = "12pm";

  const buf = await workbook.xlsx.writeBuffer();
  const blob = new Blob([buf], {
    type: "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet",
  });
  const url = URL.createObjectURL(blob);

  await download(url, "test.xls");
};
```

### Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing difficulties installing external libraries, you can refer to the [JavaScript Errors troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/js-errors) or reach out to the support team via the chat widget on this page.
