website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/manage-traffic.mdx, before:

---
description: Configure Google Cloud Run for supporting the High Availability and Scalability.
toc_max_heading_level: 2
hide_title: true
title: Configure High Availability and Scalability
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Configure High Availability and Scalability</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Business", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "business" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

This page provides steps to configure Google Cloud Run Appsmith installation for high availability and scalability.

## Prerequisites

* A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account.
* An Appsmith Commercial Edition installation on Google Cloud Run. If not installed yet, see the [Google Cloud Run installation guide](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run) for installing Appsmith.
* If you want scalable, secure, and highly available services, enable [Memorystore for Redis API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/dashboard).
* Ensure that you have taken a manual backup for your instance.

## Create a Redis instance

This guide is optional, and you can skip to [Create Service](#create-service). Follow the steps below if you want scalable, secure, and highly available services. Ensure you have enabled the **Memorystore for Redis** API as mentioned in step 5 of the [Before you begin](#before-you-begin) section.

1. Go to the [Memorystore for Redis](https://console.cloud.google.com/memorystore/redis/instances) page in the Google Cloud console.

2. Click **Create Instance**.
    
3. On the **Create a Redis instance** page, enter the configurations as shown below:

    * In the **Instance ID** field, set an id. Example: `instanceid`.
    * In the **Tier Selection** list, select one of the options:
      * **Basic**: One primary Redis node. No automatic failover for High Availability.
      * **Standard**: Provides *High Availability* and fails over to replica in case of primary node failure.
    For more information about tiers, see [Redis Tier Capabilities](https://cloud.google.com/memorystore/docs/redis/redis-tiers).
    * In the **Capacity** box, enter `10`.
    * In the **Region** box, select a region for your instance.
    * In the **Zone** box, select a zone for your instance.
    * If you selected the **Standard** tier above, in the **Configure read replicas** dropdown list, select **2 Read Replicas** .
    * Under **Set up connection**, select the **default** option for **Network**.
    * Expand the **Configuration** section. Select **6.x** option(recommended) for **Version**.

4. Click the **Create** button.

5. Once the Redis instance is ready, note down the **Primary Endpoint** to use later.

<figure>
    <img src="/img/redis-primary-endpoint.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="Primary Endpoint of the Redis Instance"/>
    <figcaption align = "center"><i>Primary Endpoint of the Redis Instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Change Appsmith installation

* Edit the Appsmith instance, and go to the **Autoscaling** section.
* Set **Maximum number of instances** to `4`.
* Under **Environment variables**, click **Add Variable** to add below variable in the **Name** and **Value** text boxes as shown below: <br/>

| Name | Value |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
| **APPSMITH_REDIS_URL** | If you followed the steps in the [Create Redis Instance](#create-a-redis-instance) section, add the host and port from the Primary Endpoint of the Redis instance you noted down in step 5. <br/><br/> <i>Format</i>: <br/>`redis://<HOST>:<PORT>`|

* ---Add steps to update the installation ---- TO DO.

## Manage traffic between revisions

Follow the steps below if you have created a Redis instance in the steps above to split traffic between multiple revisions.

1. Go to [Cloud Run](https://console.cloud.google.com/run).

2. Locate the service in the services list, and click on it.

3. Click the **Revisions** tab.

4. Click the **︙** icon under **Actions** next to the service.

5. Specify the percentage of traffic to be shared. To split traffic between more revisions, click **Add Revision**, select the desired revision, and set the percentage to the desired split.

6. Click **Save**.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/manage_traffic_revisions.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="Manage traffic between revisions"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Manage traffic between revisions</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

Commit message:

updates to manage traffic and installation steps.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/manage-traffic.mdx, after:

---
description: Configure Google Cloud Run for supporting the High Availability and Scalability.
toc_max_heading_level: 2
hide_title: true
title: Configure High Availability and Scalability
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Configure High Availability and Scalability</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Business", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "business" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

This page provides steps to configure Google Cloud Run Appsmith installation for high availability and scalability.

## Prerequisites

* A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account.
* An Appsmith Commercial Edition installation on Google Cloud Run. If not installed yet, see the [Google Cloud Run installation guide](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run) for installing Appsmith.
* If you want scalable, secure, and highly available services, enable [Memorystore for Redis API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/dashboard).
* Ensure that you have taken a manual backup for your instance.

## Create a Redis instance

This guide is optional, and you can skip to [Create Service](#create-service). Follow the steps below if you want scalable, secure, and highly available services. Ensure you have enabled the **Memorystore for Redis** API as mentioned in step 5 of the [Before you begin](#before-you-begin) section.

1. Go to the [Memorystore for Redis](https://console.cloud.google.com/memorystore/redis/instances) page in the Google Cloud console.

2. Click **Create Instance**.
    
3. On the **Create a Redis instance** page, enter the configurations as shown below:

    * In the **Instance ID** field, set an id. Example: `instanceid`.
    * In the **Tier Selection** list, select one of the options:
      * **Basic**: One primary Redis node. No automatic failover for High Availability.
      * **Standard**: Provides *High Availability* and fails over to replica in case of primary node failure.
    For more information about tiers, see [Redis Tier Capabilities](https://cloud.google.com/memorystore/docs/redis/redis-tiers).
    * In the **Capacity** box, enter `10`.
    * In the **Region** box, select a region for your instance.
    * In the **Zone** box, select a zone for your instance.
    * If you selected the **Standard** tier above, in the **Configure read replicas** dropdown list, select **2 Read Replicas** .
    * Under **Set up connection**, select the **default** option for **Network**.
    * Expand the **Configuration** section. Select **6.x** option(recommended) for **Version**.

4. Click the **Create** button.

5. Once the Redis instance is ready, note down the **Primary Endpoint** to use later.

<figure>
    <img src="/img/redis-primary-endpoint.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="Primary Endpoint of the Redis Instance"/>
    <figcaption align = "center"><i>Primary Endpoint of the Redis Instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Edit and deploy new revision

1. Go to your cloud run console.
2. Select your Appsmith Service, and click **EDIT & DEPLOY NEW REVISION**.
3. Under **Environment variables**, click **Add Variable** button to add below variable in the **Name** and **Value** text boxes as shown below: <br/>

| Name | Value |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
| **APPSMITH_REDIS_URL** | If you followed the steps in the [Create Redis Instance](#create-a-redis-instance) section, add the host and port from the Primary Endpoint of the Redis instance you noted down in step 5. Ensure that there is no trailing spaces in the Redis URL.  <br/><br/> <i>Format</i>: <br/>`redis://<HOST>:<PORT>`|

4. Click **Deploy** button. A green check mark will appear next to the newly deployed service name when it's ready.
5. Verify that the new revision is working as expected by accessing Appsmith, and logging into your account.
5. Again click **EDIT & DEPLOY NEW REVISION**.
5. Scroll down to the bottom of the page, and uncheck the **Serve this revision immediately** checkbox.
6. Click **Deploy** button. A green check mark will appear next to the newly deployed revision when it's ready.

## Manage traffic between revisions

Follow the steps below to split traffic between multiple revisions.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/manage_traffic_revisions.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="Manage traffic between revisions"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Manage traffic between revisions</i></figcaption>
</figure>

1. Go to [Cloud Run](https://console.cloud.google.com/run).
2. Locate the service in the services list, and click on it.
3. Click the **Revisions** tab.
4. Click the **MANAGE TRAFFIC** button.
5. Select the revisions that you created as part of [Edit and deploy new revision](#edit-and-deploy-new-revision) section.
7. Specify the percentage of traffic to be shared.
6. Click **Save**.

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
