website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/setup-to-integrate-sso.mdx, before:

---
description: Configure Google Cloud Run before enabling SSO.
toc_max_heading_level: 2
hide_title: true
title: Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1> Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Business", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "business" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

This page provides steps to configure Appsmith installation on Google Cloud Run for using Single Sign-On (SSO).

## Prerequisites

* A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account.
* An Appsmith Commercial Edition installation on Google Cloud Run. If not installed yet, see the [Google Cloud Run installation guide](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run) for installing Appsmith.
* Ensure that you have taken a manual backup for your instance.

### Assign roles to account

1. Go to the [IAM & Admin](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin) page in the Google Cloud console.

2. Grant the **Cloud SQL Admin** and the **Cloud SQL Client** roles to the member for the project. 

3. Click **Save**.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/grant_role_IAM.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="Assign roles to account"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Assign roles to account</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Create a PostgreSQL instance

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql) page.

2. Click **Create instance**.

3. On the **Choose your database engine** panel of the **Create an instance** page, click **Choose PostgreSQL**.

4. In the **Instance ID** field of the **Instance info** pane, enter an ID for your instance. Eg: `postgres`.

5. In the **Password** field, enter a password for the postgres user.

6. Select **PostgreSQL 12** in the **Database version** dropdown list.

7. Select **Enterprise** in the **Choose a Cloud SQL edition** panel.

8. In the **Choose region and zonal availability** section:
    * In the **Region** dropdown list, select the region for your instance.   
    * Select **Single zone** under **Zonal availability**.

9. In the **Customize your instance** section, click **SHOW CONFIGURATION OPTIONS** to display the groups of settings.

10. Under the **Storage** section: 
    * Select **HDD** under **Storage type**.
    * Select **10 GB** under **Storage capacity**.

11. Under the **Connections** section, select the **Public IP** checkbox.

12. Under the **Data protection** section, deselect the **Automate daily backups** and **Enable deletion protection** checkboxes.

13. Under the **Maintenance** section:
    * Select **Any window** in the **Maintenance window** dropdown list. 
    * Select **Any** in the **Order of update** dropdown list. 

14. Click **Create Instance**.

### Create database

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql) page.

2. To open the Overview page of an instance, click the instance name.

3. Select **Databases** from the SQL navigation menu.

4. Click **Create database**.

5. In the **New database** dialog, specify the name of the database.

6. Click **Create**.

### Create users

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql) page.

2. To open the Overview page of an instance, click the instance name.

3. Select **Users** from the SQL navigation menu.

4. Click **Add user account**.

5. In the **Add a user account to instance instance_name** page, select **Built-in authentication** (the default) and add a **User name** and **Password**.

6. Click **Add**.

## Change Appsmith installation

1. Edit the Appsmith instance, and go to the **Autoscaling** section.
2. Under **Environment variables**, click **Add Variable** to add each variable in the **Name** and **Value** text boxes as shown below: <br/>

| Name | Value |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
|**APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_URL** | `jdbc:postgresql:///<DATABASE_NAME>?cloudSqlInstance=<INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME>&socketFactory=com.google.cloud.sql.postgres.SocketFactory&user=<POSTGRESQL_USER_NAME>&password=<POSTGRESQL_USER_PASSWORD>`|
| **APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_USERNAME** |`appsmith`|
| **APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_PASSWORD** |`appsmith`|
| **APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_DRIVER** |`postgresql`|
    
3. Scroll down to **Cloud SQL connections** section.

4. Click **Add connection**.

5. Select the desired Cloud SQL instance from the dropdown list.

6. Click the **Security** tab. In the **Service account** dropdown list, select the account where you granted the **Cloud SQL Admin** and the **Cloud SQL Client** roles in the [Assign roles to account](#assign-roles-to-account) section. 



<figure>
  <img src="/img/deployed-service-url-cloud-run.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run</i></figcaption>
</figure>

10. --- Add steps to update the installation ---

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading
* [SAML Single Sign-On](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml)
* [OIDC Single Sign-On](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc)

Commit message:

SSO callout for Google Cloud Run

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/setup-to-integrate-sso.mdx, after:

---
description: Configure Google Cloud Run before enabling SSO.
toc_max_heading_level: 2
hide_title: true
title: Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1> Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Business", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "business" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

This page provides steps to configure Appsmith installation on Google Cloud Run for using Single Sign-On (SSO).

## Prerequisites

* A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account.
* An Appsmith Commercial Edition installation on Google Cloud Run. If not installed yet, see the [Google Cloud Run installation guide](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run) for installing Appsmith.
* Ensure that you have taken a manual backup for your instance.

### Assign roles to account

1. Go to the [IAM & Admin](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin) page in the Google Cloud console.

2. Grant the **Cloud SQL Admin** and the **Cloud SQL Client** roles to the member for the project. 

3. Click **Save**.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/grant_role_IAM.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="Assign roles to account"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Assign roles to account</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Create a PostgreSQL instance

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql) page.

2. Click **Create instance**.

3. On the **Choose your database engine** panel of the **Create an instance** page, click **Choose PostgreSQL**.

4. In the **Instance ID** field of the **Instance info** pane, enter an ID for your instance. Eg: `postgres`.

5. In the **Password** field, enter a password for the postgres user.

6. Select **PostgreSQL 12** in the **Database version** dropdown list.

7. Select **Enterprise** in the **Choose a Cloud SQL edition** panel.

8. In the **Choose region and zonal availability** section:
    * In the **Region** dropdown list, select the region for your instance.   
    * Select **Single zone** under **Zonal availability**.

9. In the **Customize your instance** section, click **SHOW CONFIGURATION OPTIONS** to display the groups of settings.

10. Under the **Storage** section: 
    * Select **HDD** under **Storage type**.
    * Select **10 GB** under **Storage capacity**.

11. Under the **Connections** section, select the **Public IP** checkbox.

12. Under the **Data protection** section, deselect the **Automate daily backups** and **Enable deletion protection** checkboxes.

13. Under the **Maintenance** section:
    * Select **Any window** in the **Maintenance window** dropdown list. 
    * Select **Any** in the **Order of update** dropdown list. 

14. Click **Create Instance**.

### Create database

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql) page.

2. To open the Overview page of an instance, click the instance name.

3. Select **Databases** from the SQL navigation menu.

4. Click **Create database**.

5. In the **New database** dialog, specify the name of the database.

6. Click **Create**.

### Create users

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql) page.

2. To open the Overview page of an instance, click the instance name.

3. Select **Users** from the SQL navigation menu.

4. Click **Add user account**.

5. In the **Add a user account to instance instance_name** page, select **Built-in authentication** (the default) and add a **User name** and **Password**.

6. Click **Add**.

## Edit and deploy new revision

1. Go to your cloud run console.
2. Select your Appsmith Service, and click **EDIT & DEPLOY NEW REVISION**.
3. Under **Environment variables**, click **Add Variable** button to add each variable in the **Name** and **Value** text boxes as shown below: <br/>

| Name | Value |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
|**APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_URL** | `jdbc:postgresql:///<DATABASE_NAME>?cloudSqlInstance=<INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME>&socketFactory=com.google.cloud.sql.postgres.SocketFactory&user=<POSTGRESQL_USER_NAME>&password=<POSTGRESQL_USER_PASSWORD>`|
| **APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_USERNAME** |`appsmith`|
| **APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_PASSWORD** |`appsmith`|
| **APPSMITH_KEYCLOAK_DB_DRIVER** |`postgresql`|
    
3. Scroll down to **Cloud SQL connections** section.

4. Click **Add connection**.

5. Select the desired Cloud SQL instance from the dropdown list.

6. Click the **Security** tab. In the **Service account** dropdown list, select the account where you granted the **Cloud SQL Admin** and the **Cloud SQL Client** roles in the [Assign roles to account](#assign-roles-to-account) section. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/deployed-service-url-cloud-run.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run</i></figcaption>
</figure>

7. Click **Deploy** button. A green check mark will appear next to the newly deployed service name when it's ready.
8. Verify that the new revision is working as expected by accessing Appsmith, and logging into your account.

## Troubleshooting

If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading
* [SAML Single Sign-On](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml)
* [OIDC Single Sign-On](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/openid-connect-oidc)
