website/docs/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/connecting-to-git-repository.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Connect Git Repository

The first step to using version control in Appsmith is to connect your remote repository with the app. Please follow the steps given below:

### Prerequisites

Create a new repository on your Git hosting service and copy the `SSH URL`. The repository shouldn't contain any files.

:::info
Version Control works with any Git hosting service that supports **SSH protocol** and **deploy keys**. HTTPS Git connections are currently not supported on Appsmith.
:::

### Generate a deploy key

1. Open the Appsmith app you want to connect to Git and click the **Connect Git** button on the left of the bottom bar.
2. In the Git connection Modal, paste your repository’s `SSH URL` and click the **Generate Key** button to generate an SSH key.

    ![Click to generate deploy key](/img/generate_deploy_key.png)

3. Pick the key that's compatible with your Git hosting service. Appsmith supports two types of keys -  **ECDSA 256** and **RSA 4096**. To select a key, Click **︙** icon and select the desired key.
4. Copy the **SSH key**.

## Add the deploy key in the Repository
 
<Tabs queryString="version-control">
<TabItem label="GitHub" value="github">

1. In your repository, go to the **Settings** tab.
2. On the navigation bar, under **Security**, click **Deploy Keys**. 
3. Click **Add deploy key**. Add a title for the key and paste the generated `SSH key` in the **Key** input box.
4. Select the **Allow write access** checkbox.
5. Click **Add key**.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="GitLab" value="gitlab">

1. Open your repository and from the sidebar, go to the **Settings** > **Repository** and expand the **Deploy keys** section.
2. Click **Add key**. Add the title and paste the generated key in the key section.
3. Enable the **Grant write permissions to this key** checkbox 
4. Click **Add key**.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Bitbucket" value="bitbucket">

1. Open **Personal Bitbucket settings** from the top right corner and under security go to **SSH keys**.
2. Click **Add key**, add the label and paste the generated key in the **Key** input box.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Azure" value="azure">

1. Go to **User Settings** from the top right corner and open **SSH public keys**.
2. Click **+ New key**, add the key name and paste the generated `RSA 4096` key in the **Public Key Data** input box.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Complete Git setup

Go back to Git connection Modal in Appsmith and click **Connect**, it may take some time and when the connection is successful, the app is added to your repository by system generated commit.

:::info
For self-hosted instances, to maintain the Git repositories, please [update the local file path](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/updating-local-file-path).
:::

## Further reading

[Setup branches](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/working-with-branches)

Commit message:

fix: Updated Git Connect docs for v2 (#1761)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

---------

Co-authored-by: danciaclara <claradancia20@gmail.com>

website/docs/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/connecting-to-git-repository.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Connect Git Repository

The first step to using version control in Appsmith is to connect your remote repository with the app. Please follow the steps given below:

:::info
Version Control works with any Git hosting service that supports **SSH protocol** and **deploy keys**. HTTPS Git connections are currently not supported on Appsmith.
:::

### Generate a deploy key

1. Open the Appsmith app you want to connect to Git and click the **Connect Git** button on the left of the bottom bar.
2. Select the Git service provider of your choice and create a new Git repository if you don't already have one.
3. Paste the repository's `SSH URL` in step 2 to generate the SSH key.
4. Copy the **SSH key**.

## Add the deploy key in the Repository
 
<Tabs queryString="version-control">
<TabItem label="GitHub" value="github">

1. In your repository, go to the **Settings** tab.
2. On the navigation bar, under **Security**, click **Deploy Keys**. 
3. Click **Add deploy key**. Add a title for the key and paste the generated `SSH key` in the **Key** input box.
4. Select the **Allow write access** checkbox.
5. Click **Add key**.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="GitLab" value="gitlab">

1. Open your repository and from the sidebar, go to the **Settings** > **Repository** and expand the **Deploy keys** section.
2. Click **Add key**. Add the title and paste the generated key in the key section.
3. Enable the **Grant write permissions to this key** checkbox 
4. Click **Add key**.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Bitbucket" value="bitbucket">

1. Open **Personal Bitbucket settings** from the top right corner and under security go to **SSH keys**.
2. Click **Add key**, add the label and paste the generated key in the **Key** input box.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Azure" value="azure">

1. Go to **User Settings** from the top right corner and open **SSH public keys**.
2. Click **+ New key**, add the key name and paste the generated `RSA 4096` key in the **Public Key Data** input box.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Complete Git setup

Go back to Git connection Modal in Appsmith and click **Connect**, it may take some time and when the connection is successful, the app is added to your repository by system generated commit.

## Further reading

[Setup branches](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/working-with-branches)
