website/docs/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/environments-with-git.md, before:

# Environments With Git

Appsmith enables you to create and maintain multiple versions of your applications and make changes to them in isolation using Git. Having separate staging and production workspaces ensures that users can continue to use your apps even while they're being changed or upgraded.

:::info
This method doesn't support APIs, Google Sheets, Twilio, or any authenticated API datasources.
:::

Follow the steps below to setup the pipeline:

### Setup environments

1. Create two workspaces for your staging and production versions of the app. These workspaces can be across two separate instances of Appsmith.
2. Create your app in the staging workspace and [connect to a Git repository](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/connecting-to-git-repository) . Once connected, check out a staging branch from the default branch(you can name the default branch as production).
3. Import the app into your production workspace using [Import from Git](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/import-from-repository).
4. Once the import is complete, add your production datasource configurations in the **Reconnect Datasources** Modal.

### Build and deploy app
1. Build the app in the staging workspace with staging datasources. 
2. Use the Git workflow to make changes in the staging branch(or feature branches), before merging to the production branch through a pull request.
3. When you're ready to deploy, [pull the changes](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/merging-branches#pull-changes) on the production branch in the production workspace app.

### Share app
1. Invite end users to your production app with the *App Viewer* role. They only have access to view the deployed app.
2. Invite a few trusted individuals with *Administrator* roles to the production app to setup datasources and deploy the app periodically.
3. Invite your developers to the staging app with the *Developer* role to build the app and test out changes on the staging datasources.
4. QA team members can be invited to both staging and production apps with the *App Viewer* role to test out the changes deployed.

### General notes
- If you're using two different self-hosted instances for production and staging, take a backup of both instances before updating Appsmith. Update only the staging instance and test all your apps on it before updating the production instance.
- In the event of an error, you can rollback by following the instructions on [Restore Appsmith Instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl#restore-instance)

Commit message:

fix: Branch Protection and Default Branch Config (#1879)
## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/environments-with-git.md, after:

# Environments With Git

Appsmith enables you to create and maintain multiple versions of your applications and make changes to them in isolation using Git. Having separate staging and production workspaces ensures that users can continue to use your apps even while they're being changed or upgraded.

:::info
This method doesn't support APIs, Google Sheets, Twilio, or any authenticated API datasources.
:::

Follow the steps below to setup the pipeline:

### Setup environments

1. Create two workspaces for your staging and production versions of the app. These workspaces can be across two separate instances of Appsmith.
2. Create your app in the staging workspace and [connect to a Git repository](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/connecting-to-git-repository) . Once connected, check out a staging branch from the default branch(you can name the default branch as production).

<dd>

If you are an enterprise user, you can choose a different branch as the default, offering customization based on specific project requirements or preferences. Learn more about [Default branch](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/working-with-branches#default-branch).

</dd>

3. Import the app into your production workspace using [Import from Git](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/import-from-repository).
4. Once the import is complete, add your production datasource configurations in the **Reconnect Datasources** Modal.

### Build and deploy app
1. Build the app in the staging workspace with staging datasources. 
2. Use the Git workflow to make changes in the staging branch(or feature branches), before merging to the production branch through a pull request.
3. When you're ready to deploy, [pull the changes](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/merging-branches#pull-changes) on the production branch in the production workspace app.

### Share app
1. Invite end users to your production app with the *App Viewer* role. They only have access to view the deployed app.
2. Invite a few trusted individuals with *Administrator* roles to the production app to setup datasources and deploy the app periodically.
3. Invite your developers to the staging app with the *Developer* role to build the app and test out changes on the staging datasources.
4. QA team members can be invited to both staging and production apps with the *App Viewer* role to test out the changes deployed.

### General notes
- If you're using two different self-hosted instances for production and staging, take a backup of both instances before updating Appsmith. Update only the staging instance and test all your apps on it before updating the production instance.
- In the event of an error, you can rollback by following the instructions on [Restore Appsmith Instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl#restore-instance)
