website/docs/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/README.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Version Control With Git

Version control with Git in Appsmith offers a streamlined solution for application management, allowing you to track changes, rollback, collaborate, set up multiple instances, and more. With Git, you can make changes on separate branches and implement changes via pull requests.

## Core components


- **Version Control Integration:** You can connect with any Git hosting provider of your choice, such as [GitHub](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-github), [GitLab](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-gitlab), [Azure](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-other-provider), [Bitbucket](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-bitbucket), and more.

- **Branch Protection:** You can protect multiple branches to prevent unnecessary commits and maintain the integrity of your codebase.

- **CI/CD Integration:** Supports Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery workflows, enabling automatic updates to the `master` branch and integration with platforms like [GitHub Actions](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/cd-with-github-actions), [Bitbucket Pipelines](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/cd-with-bitbucket) and [GitLab CI/CD](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/cd-with-gitlab).

- **Multiple Instances:** You can create separate isolated environments with different versions and configurations for each stage of the software development lifecycle (SDLC).



## Getting started

Version control in Appsmith is similar to the traditional Git workflow. For more information, you can explore the following:



<div className="containerGridSampleApp">
    <div className="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one">
        <div className="containerCol">
           <a href="/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/overview"><strong>Guides</strong></a>
        </div><hr/>
        <div className="containerDescription">Learn to set up Git, automate with CI/CD, and more.</div>
    </div>
    <div className="columnGrid column-two" style={{margin: "10px"}}>
   </div>
</div>

Commit message:

fix: Git Review Fix (#2291)
## Description 

Provide a concise summary of the changes made in this pull request
- 

## Pull request type

Check the appropriate box:

- [ ] Review Fixes
- [ ] Documentation Overhaul
- [ ] Feature/Story
    - Link one or more Engineering Tickets
        * 
- [ ] A-Force
- [ ] Error in documentation
- [ ] Maintenance

## Documentation tickets

 Link to one or more documentation tickets:
 - 

## Checklist

From the below options, select the ones that are applicable:

- [ ] Checked for Grammarly suggestions.
- [ ] Adhered to the writing checklist.
- [ ] Adhered to the media checklist.
- [ ] Verified and updated cross-references or added redirect rules.
- [ ] Tested the redirect rules on deploy preview.
- [ ] Validated the modifications made to the content on the deploy
preview.
- [ ] Validated the CSS modifications on different screen sizes.

website/docs/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/README.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Version Control With Git

Version control with Git in Appsmith provides a comprehensive solution for managing your application throughout the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). It allows you to effectively track changes, roll back to previous states, and collaborate with your team. 



<ZoomImage src="/img/appsmith-gitflow.png" alt="" caption=""/>



## Core components


- **Version Control Integration:** You can connect with any Git hosting provider of your choice, such as [GitHub](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-github), [GitLab](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-gitlab), [Azure](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-other-provider), [Bitbucket](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/setup-bitbucket), and more.

- **Branch Protection:** You can protect multiple branches to prevent unnecessary commits and maintain the integrity of your codebase. For more information, see [Branch protection](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/reference/git-settings#branch-protection).

- **Default Branch:**  You can change your default branch to set different branches for various environments, such as development, staging, and production. This flexibility helps manage and isolate changes at different stages of the software development lifecycle (SDLC). For more information, see [Default branch.](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/reference/git-settings#default-branch)


- **CI/CD Integration:** Supports Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery workflows, enabling automatic updates to any branch and integration with various CI/CD tools and platforms. For more information, see [Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) with Git](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/cd-with-git).

- **Multiple Instances:** You can create separate isolated environments with different versions and configurations for each stage of the software development lifecycle (SDLC). For more information, see [ Multiple Environments Using Git](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/environments-with-git).



## Getting started

Version control in Appsmith is similar to the traditional Git workflow. For more information, you can explore the following:



<div className="containerGridSampleApp">
    <div className="containerColumnSampleApp columnGrid column-one">
        <div className="containerCol">
           <a href="/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/guides/overview"><strong>Guides</strong></a>
        </div><hr/>
        <div className="containerDescription">Learn to set up Git, automate with CI/CD, and more.</div>
    </div>
    <div className="columnGrid column-two" style={{margin: "10px"}}>
   </div>
</div>
