website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl.mdx, before:

---
description: Use the `appsmithctl` to backup and restore the Appsmith instance and database.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Backup and Restore

Appsmith comes with the `appsmithctl` command line utility. You can use the command line to interact with and manage your Appsmith instance. For example, back up and restore your Appsmith instance and database. This page provides steps to run the backup and restore commands.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="tlbK8Cke3sw" title="How To Use Appsmithctl For Instance Management" caption="How to use Appsmithctl for Docker"/>

## Usage
```bash
appsmithctl <subcommand> <options>
```

### Subcommands

Subcommands allow you to trigger different operations like exporting or importing databases.

| Subcommand                                      | Description                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------| -------------------------------------------------------- |
| --help                                          | Shows available subcommands and how to use `appsmithctl` |
| [backup](#backup-instance)             | Creates a backup of the Appsmith instance                |
| [ex, export_db](#backup-database)      | Creates a backup of Appsmith internal database           |
| [--upload-to-s3](#sync-backup-to-s3-bucket)    | Upload the back up files to S3 bucket (Business Edition only) |
| [restore](#restore-instance)           | Restores the Appsmith instance from a backup             |
| [im, import_db](#restore-database)     | Restores the Appsmith internal database                  |

## Prerequisites

- The Appsmith instance should be up and running. If you haven't already installed Appsmith, refer to the [Installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides).
- Access to execute `docker-compose` or `kubectl` commands

## Backup instance

You can create a backup archive of the Appsmith instance. The backup includes the database, `docker.env`, and Git data. Follow these steps to create a backup archive:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Go to the directory that has the `docker-compose.yml` file.

2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith instance.

3. Create a backup archive with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl backup
```
The backup archive file is stored in the `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/` folder. You can access it on the host machine at `./stacks/data/backup/.`

4. If you can't access or have a different volume configuration, copy the archive file to your host disk with:

```bash
# Replace the appsmith-backup-DATE_AND_TIMESTAMP.tar.gz with the backup file name
docker cp appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-backup-DATE_AND_TIMESTAMP.tar.gz .
```
This command copies the backup archive in your current directory.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```
2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
# Replace ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME -- cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith instance.

3. Create a backup with:
 
```bash
# Replace ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl backup
```
The archive file is stored in the container directory `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/`.

4. Copy the archive file
```bash
# Replace ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-backup-TIMESTAMP.tar.gz appsmith-backup-TIMESTAMP.tar.gz
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Schedule automatic backups

:::info
Scheduling automatic backups is a feature available only in the Appsmith [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing).
:::

#### Docker
Follow these steps to schedule backups only for Docker Appsmith installation:

1. Go to the directory where the `docker.env` file is located.
2. Open the `docker.env` file and set the environment variable as shown below:

```bash
# Add a 5-value cron expression
#highlight-next-line
APPSMITH_BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION="ADD_5_VALUE_CRON_EXPRESSION"
```
##### Examples
* To schedule a backup at 12:00 noon on Sunday:
```bash
#highlight-next-line
APPSMITH_BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION="0 12 * * SUN"
```
* To schedule a backup daily at Midnight:
```bash
#highlight-next-line
APPSMITH_BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION="0 0 * * *"
```
For more information about creating the `Cron` expressions, see [Cron Schedule Expression Editor](https://crontab.guru/).

### Sync backup to S3 bucket

:::info
Syncing backups with an AWS S3 bucket is a feature available only in the Appsmith [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing).
:::

Follow these steps to sync backups with an S3 bucket for your installation type:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Go to the directory where the `docker.env` file is located.
2. Open the `docker.env` file and add the below entries:

```bash
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY=AWS_ACCESS_KEY 
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_SECRET_KEY=AWS_SECRET_KEY
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_BUCKET_NAME=BUCKET_NAME 
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_REGION=AWS_BUCKET_REGION
```
3. Sync your backups to the S3 bucket with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmithctl backup --upload-to-s3
```
After configuration, the restore command lists local and S3 bucket backups.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Set the Amazon S3 bucket:

    * Using the command:

    ```bash
    helm upgrade \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY=AWS_ACCESS_KEY  \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_SECRET_KEY=<AWS_SECRET_KEY \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_BUCKET_NAME=BUCKET_NAME  \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_REGION=AWS_BUCKET_REGION \
      appsmith appsmith/appsmith 
    ```  

    * **Or** using `values.yaml` file:

      a. Update the parameter values in the `values.yaml` file under the `applicationConfig` section:

      ```yaml
      applicationConfig:
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY=AWS_ACCESS_KEY 
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_SECRET_KEY=AWS_SECRET_KEY
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_BUCKET_NAME=BUCKET_NAME 
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_REGION=AWS_BUCKET_REGION
      ```

      b. Update the values:

      * For the **Community Edition** with:

      ```bash
      helm upgrade appsmith appsmith/appsmith -f values.yaml 
      ```

      * For the **Business Edition** with:

      ```bash
      helm upgrade appsmith appsmith-ee/appsmith -f values.yaml 
      ```

2. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```

3. Sync your backups to the S3 bucket with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl backup --upload-to-s3
```
After configuration, the restore command lists local and S3 bucket backups.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Backup database

Follow these steps to back up your Appsmith internal database:

:::caution Attention
Ensure that the name of the backup archive (`appsmith-data.archive`) isn't changed.
:::

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Go to the directory that has the `docker-compose.yml` file.

2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith database.

3. Create a backup archive with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl export_db
```

The backup archive file is stored in the `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/` folder. You can access it on the host machine at ./stacks/data/backup/.

4. If you can't access or have a different volume configuration, copy the archive file to your host disk with:

```bash
docker cp appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-data.archive .
```
This command copies the backup archive in your current directory.

5. To recreate the same environment elsewhere, copy the `docker.env` file with:

```bash
docker cp appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env .
```
This command copies the `docker.env` file in your current directory.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```

2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME -- cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith database.

3. Create a database backup with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl export_db
```

The archive file is stored in the container directory `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/`.

4. Copy the archive file with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-data.archive appsmith-data.archive
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Restore instance

Follow these steps to restore your Appsmith instance from a backup archive:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Restore your Appsmith instance with:
```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl restore
```
The command lists backup archives in the folder, with the latest backup at the bottom.

2. Select the backup archive from the given list of backup archives to restore.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/restore-appsmith-instance.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Select a backup archive while restoring Appsmith instance"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Select a backup archive while restoring Appsmith instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>

:::caution Attention
If you restore an older version of Appsmith, a warning message may appear. Update the `docker-compose.yml` file with the Appsmith image you wish to restore.
:::

3. You can either use the existing encryption or create new values for:
    * APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD
    * APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT

<figure>
  <img src="/img/restore-appsmith-instance-encryption.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Option to use existing encryption values"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Option to use existing encryption values</i></figcaption>
</figure>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```
2. Copy the archive file to the pod with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp appsmith-backup-TIMESTAMP.tar.gz ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/
```

3. Go to the `/appsmith-stacks/configuration/` folder

4. Open the `docker.env` file and update the below parameters:

```bash
# The one you generated and stored while creating a backup
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT
```

5. Restore the backup with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl restore
```

6. Restart the Appsmith pods:

  a. When autoscaling is turned off, or you are using a Community Edition with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart statefulset appsmith
  ```
  b. When autoscaling is turned on with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart deployment appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Restore database

Follow these steps to restore the Appsmith internal database:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Copy the archive file into the container with:

```bash
docker cp ./appsmith-data.archive appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/data/restore/
```

2. Import data from the backup archive file with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl import_db
```

3. Copy the `docker.env` file with:

```bash
# Add the path for the docker.env file if not present in the installation folder
docker cp ./docker.env appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/configuration/
```

4. Restart the Appsmith server with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith supervisorctl restart backend
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```

2. Copy the archive file into the container with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp ./appsmith-data.archive ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/restore/
```

3. Go to the `/appsmith-stacks/configuration/` folder

4. Open the `docker.env` file and update the below parameters:

```bash
# The one you generated and stored while creating a backup
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT
```

5. Import data from the archive file with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl import_db
```

6. Restart the Appsmith pods:

  a. When autoscaling is turned off, or you are using a Community Edition with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart statefulset appsmith
  ```
  b. When autoscaling is turned on with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart deployment appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting
If you face issues, contact [support@appsmith.com](mailto:support@appsmith.com).

Commit message:

initial commit
- Added self-hosted instance to either prerequisites or to the document introduction.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl.mdx, after:

---
description: Use the `appsmithctl` to backup and restore the self-hosted instance and database.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Backup and Restore

Appsmith comes with the `appsmithctl` command line utility. You can use the command line to interact with and manage your self-hosted instance. For example, back up and restore your Appsmith instance and database. This page provides steps to run the backup and restore commands.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="tlbK8Cke3sw" title="How To Use Appsmithctl For Instance Management" caption="How to use Appsmithctl for Docker"/>

## Usage
```bash
appsmithctl <subcommand> <options>
```

### Subcommands

Subcommands allow you to trigger different operations like exporting or importing databases.

| Subcommand                                      | Description                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------| -------------------------------------------------------- |
| --help                                          | Shows available subcommands and how to use `appsmithctl` |
| [backup](#backup-instance)             | Creates a backup of the Appsmith instance                |
| [ex, export_db](#backup-database)      | Creates a backup of Appsmith internal database           |
| [--upload-to-s3](#sync-backup-to-s3-bucket)    | Upload the back up files to S3 bucket (Business Edition only) |
| [restore](#restore-instance)           | Restores the Appsmith instance from a backup             |
| [im, import_db](#restore-database)     | Restores the Appsmith internal database                  |

## Prerequisites

- The self-hosted instance should be up and running. If you haven't already installed Appsmith, refer to the [Installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides).
- Access to execute `docker-compose` or `kubectl` commands

## Backup instance

You can create a backup archive of the Appsmith instance. The backup includes the database, `docker.env`, and Git data. Follow these steps to create a backup archive:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Go to the directory that has the `docker-compose.yml` file.

2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith instance.

3. Create a backup archive with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl backup
```
The backup archive file is stored in the `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/` folder. You can access it on the host machine at `./stacks/data/backup/.`

4. If you can't access or have a different volume configuration, copy the archive file to your host disk with:

```bash
# Replace the appsmith-backup-DATE_AND_TIMESTAMP.tar.gz with the backup file name
docker cp appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-backup-DATE_AND_TIMESTAMP.tar.gz .
```
This command copies the backup archive in your current directory.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```
2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
# Replace ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME -- cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith instance.

3. Create a backup with:
 
```bash
# Replace ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl backup
```
The archive file is stored in the container directory `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/`.

4. Copy the archive file
```bash
# Replace ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-backup-TIMESTAMP.tar.gz appsmith-backup-TIMESTAMP.tar.gz
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Schedule automatic backups

:::info
Scheduling automatic backups is a feature available only in the Appsmith [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing).
:::

#### Docker
Follow these steps to schedule backups only for Docker Appsmith installation:

1. Go to the directory where the `docker.env` file is located.
2. Open the `docker.env` file and set the environment variable as shown below:

```bash
# Add a 5-value cron expression
#highlight-next-line
APPSMITH_BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION="ADD_5_VALUE_CRON_EXPRESSION"
```
##### Examples
* To schedule a backup at 12:00 noon on Sunday:
```bash
#highlight-next-line
APPSMITH_BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION="0 12 * * SUN"
```
* To schedule a backup daily at Midnight:
```bash
#highlight-next-line
APPSMITH_BACKUP_CRON_EXPRESSION="0 0 * * *"
```
For more information about creating the `Cron` expressions, see [Cron Schedule Expression Editor](https://crontab.guru/).

### Sync backup to S3 bucket

:::info
Syncing backups with an AWS S3 bucket is a feature available only in the Appsmith [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing).
:::

Follow these steps to sync backups with an S3 bucket for your installation type:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Go to the directory where the `docker.env` file is located.
2. Open the `docker.env` file and add the below entries:

```bash
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY=AWS_ACCESS_KEY 
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_SECRET_KEY=AWS_SECRET_KEY
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_BUCKET_NAME=BUCKET_NAME 
APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_REGION=AWS_BUCKET_REGION
```
3. Sync your backups to the S3 bucket with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmithctl backup --upload-to-s3
```
After configuration, the restore command lists local and S3 bucket backups.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Set the Amazon S3 bucket:

    * Using the command:

    ```bash
    helm upgrade \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY=AWS_ACCESS_KEY  \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_SECRET_KEY=<AWS_SECRET_KEY \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_BUCKET_NAME=BUCKET_NAME  \
    --set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_REGION=AWS_BUCKET_REGION \
      appsmith appsmith/appsmith 
    ```  

    * **Or** using `values.yaml` file:

      a. Update the parameter values in the `values.yaml` file under the `applicationConfig` section:

      ```yaml
      applicationConfig:
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY=AWS_ACCESS_KEY 
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_SECRET_KEY=AWS_SECRET_KEY
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_BUCKET_NAME=BUCKET_NAME 
        APPSMITH_BACKUP_S3_REGION=AWS_BUCKET_REGION
      ```

      b. Update the values:

      * For the **Community Edition** with:

      ```bash
      helm upgrade appsmith appsmith/appsmith -f values.yaml 
      ```

      * For the **Business Edition** with:

      ```bash
      helm upgrade appsmith appsmith-ee/appsmith -f values.yaml 
      ```

2. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```

3. Sync your backups to the S3 bucket with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl backup --upload-to-s3
```
After configuration, the restore command lists local and S3 bucket backups.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Backup database

Follow these steps to back up your Appsmith internal database:

:::caution Attention
Ensure that the name of the backup archive (`appsmith-data.archive`) isn't changed.
:::

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Go to the directory that has the `docker-compose.yml` file.

2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith database.

3. Create a backup archive with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl export_db
```

The backup archive file is stored in the `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/` folder. You can access it on the host machine at ./stacks/data/backup/.

4. If you can't access or have a different volume configuration, copy the archive file to your host disk with:

```bash
docker cp appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-data.archive .
```
This command copies the backup archive in your current directory.

5. To recreate the same environment elsewhere, copy the `docker.env` file with:

```bash
docker cp appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env .
```
This command copies the `docker.env` file in your current directory.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```

2. Get your encryption details with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME -- cat /appsmith-stacks/configuration/docker.env | grep ENCRYPTION
```
Keep these details handy, as you need them for restoring the Appsmith database.

3. Create a database backup with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl export_db
```

The archive file is stored in the container directory `/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/`.

4. Copy the archive file with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/appsmith-data.archive appsmith-data.archive
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Restore instance

Follow these steps to restore your Appsmith instance from a backup archive:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Restore your Appsmith instance with:
```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl restore
```
The command lists backup archives in the folder, with the latest backup at the bottom.

2. Select the backup archive from the given list of backup archives to restore.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/restore-appsmith-instance.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Select a backup archive while restoring Appsmith instance"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Select a backup archive while restoring Appsmith instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>

:::caution Attention
If you restore an older version of Appsmith, a warning message may appear. Update the `docker-compose.yml` file with the Appsmith image you wish to restore.
:::

3. You can either use the existing encryption or create new values for:
    * APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD
    * APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT

<figure>
  <img src="/img/restore-appsmith-instance-encryption.png" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt="Option to use existing encryption values"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Option to use existing encryption values</i></figcaption>
</figure>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```
2. Copy the archive file to the pod with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp appsmith-backup-TIMESTAMP.tar.gz ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/backup/
```

3. Go to the `/appsmith-stacks/configuration/` folder

4. Open the `docker.env` file and update the below parameters:

```bash
# The one you generated and stored while creating a backup
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT
```

5. Restore the backup with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl restore
```

6. Restart the Appsmith pods:

  a. When autoscaling is turned off, or you are using a Community Edition with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart statefulset appsmith
  ```
  b. When autoscaling is turned on with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart deployment appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Restore database

Follow these steps to restore the Appsmith internal database:

<Tabs queryString="current-command-type">
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker-commands"> 

1. Copy the archive file into the container with:

```bash
docker cp ./appsmith-data.archive appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/data/restore/
```

2. Import data from the backup archive file with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith appsmithctl import_db
```

3. Copy the `docker.env` file with:

```bash
# Add the path for the docker.env file if not present in the installation folder
docker cp ./docker.env appsmith:/appsmith-stacks/configuration/
```

4. Restart the Appsmith server with:

```bash
docker-compose exec appsmith supervisorctl restart backend
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Kubernetes" value="kubernetes-commands"> 

1. Get the name of the Appsmith pod with:

```bash
kubectl get pods
```

2. Copy the archive file into the container with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl cp ./appsmith-data.archive ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME:/appsmith-stacks/data/restore/
```

3. Go to the `/appsmith-stacks/configuration/` folder

4. Open the `docker.env` file and update the below parameters:

```bash
# The one you generated and stored while creating a backup
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD
APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT=APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT
```

5. Import data from the archive file with:

```bash
# Replace `ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME` with the pod name
#highlight-next-line
kubectl exec ANY_APPSMITH_POD_NAME appsmithctl import_db
```

6. Restart the Appsmith pods:

  a. When autoscaling is turned off, or you are using a Community Edition with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart statefulset appsmith
  ```
  b. When autoscaling is turned on with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart deployment appsmith
  ```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting
If you face issues, contact [support@appsmith.com](mailto:support@appsmith.com).
