website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-management/update-appsmith.mdx, before:

---
description: This page provides steps to update Appsmith to the latest version on your self-hosted Appsmith instance.
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

# Update Appsmith

This page provides steps to update Appsmith to the latest version on your self-hosted Appsmith instance.

## System requirements

* At least 2 GB of free storage space for backup and update tasks.

## Prerequisites

* Create a backup of the Appsmith instance, See [Backup instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl/#backup-instance) guide. (_Recommended_)
* Upgrade your embedded or external MongoDB server to MongoDB v5 or later. See the list of [compliant platforms](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/administration/production-notes/#platform-support) and follow the steps to [Upgrade a Replica Set to 5.0](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/5.0-upgrade-replica-set/).

## Update on Docker

Before you begin the Appsmith update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites), and your current Appsmith version is v1.9.2 or later. If you're not on this version, see the [Upgrade to checkpoint version](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/upgrade-to-checkpoint-version) guide.

Follow these steps to update Appsmith, use these instructions to update Appsmith on any platform that supports Docker (Docker, AWS AMI, or DigitalOcean).

1. Go to the Appsmith installation directory. If you don't know the directory, find it with:

  ```bash
  docker inspect -f '{{ (index .Mounts 0).Source }}' <APPSMITH_CONTAINER_ID>
  ```
2. Update the Appsmith installation to the latest version with:

  ```bash
  docker-compose pull && docker-compose rm -fsv appsmith && docker-compose up -d
  ```
The above command pulls the latest image of Appsmith and updates the installation after restarting the Docker container.

You may choose to schedule automatic updates for your Appsmith Docker installation. For more information, see [Schedule Automatic Updates for Docker installation](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/maintenance-window#docker).

## Update on Kubernetes

Before you begin the update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites). Follow these steps to update Appsmith:

* If you are on the **Community Edition**, update the installation to the latest release with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart statefulset appsmith
  ```
* If you are on the **Commerical Edition**, update the Appsmith container image to the latest release with: 

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart deployment appsmith
  ```
You may choose to schedule automatic updates for your Appsmith Kubernetes installation. For more information, see [Schedule Automatic Updates for Kubernetes installation](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/maintenance-window#kubernetes ).

## Update on AWS ECS EC2

Before you begin the update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites). Follow the below steps using the Classic Amazon Web Console to update Appsmith:

1. Log in to your [AWS account](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/).
2. Go to the **Amazon ECS console**.
3. Choose the **cluster** that has the container instance you wish to update.
4. Click the **Tasks** tab.
5. Select and click the **task** you wish to update. 
6. Click the **Stop** button to stop the task. Wait for the automatic deployment of a new task to complete.
7. Verify that the updated version of your application is running as expected.

## Update on Azure container instance

Before you begin the update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites).

1. Navigate to the Azure Container Instance (ACI) on the Azure Portal.
2. Click the **ACI** running Appsmith.
3. Click the **Restart** button.
4. Wait until the ACI restarts with the latest Appsmith release.

## Troubleshooting

If you see errors, roll back to a previous version to fix the issue. For more information, see the [Restore instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl#restore-instance) section. If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

Commit message:

fix: DigitalOcean Instructions update (#2529)
## Description 

Provide a concise summary of the changes made in this pull request
[DigitalOcean Installation
Guide](https://appsmith-docs-git-fix-update-digital-ocean-addee5-get-appsmith.vercel.app/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/digitalocean)
Updates:
-  Updated the embedded video
- Updated instructions for installing Appsmith by following Diataxis'
guidelines
- Removed all the images that are no longer needed

## Pull request type

Check the appropriate box:

- [ ] Review Fixes
- [ ] Documentation Overhaul
- [ ] Feature/Story
    - Link one or more Engineering Tickets
        * 
- [ ] A-Force
- [ ] Error in documentation
- [x] Maintenance

## Documentation tickets

 Link to one or more documentation tickets:
 - #2500 

## Checklist

From the below options, select the ones that are applicable:

- [x] Checked for Grammarly suggestions.
- [x] Adhered to the writing checklist.
- [x] Adhered to the media checklist.
- [ ] Verified and updated cross-references or added redirect rules.
- [ ] Tested the redirect rules on deploy preview.
- [ ] Validated the modifications made to the content on the deploy
preview.
- [ ] Validated the CSS modifications on different screen sizes.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-management/update-appsmith.mdx, after:

---
description: This page provides steps to update Appsmith to the latest version on your self-hosted Appsmith instance.
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

# Update Appsmith

This page provides steps to update Appsmith to the latest version on your self-hosted Appsmith instance.

## System requirements

* At least 2 GB of free storage space for backup and update tasks.

## Prerequisites

* Create a backup of the Appsmith instance, See [Backup instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl/#backup-instance) guide. (_Recommended_)
* Upgrade your embedded or external MongoDB server to MongoDB v5 or later. See the list of [compliant platforms](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/administration/production-notes/#platform-support) and follow the steps to [Upgrade a Replica Set to 5.0](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/5.0-upgrade-replica-set/).

## Update on Docker

Before you begin the Appsmith update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites), and your current Appsmith version is v1.9.2 or later. If you're not on this version, see the [Upgrade to checkpoint version](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/upgrade-to-checkpoint-version) guide.

Follow these steps to update Appsmith, use these instructions to update Appsmith on any platform that supports Docker (Docker, AWS AMI, or DigitalOcean).

1. Go to the Appsmith installation directory. If you don't know the directory, find it with:

  ```bash
  docker inspect -f '{{ (index .Mounts 0).Source }}' <APPSMITH_CONTAINER_ID>
  ```
2. Update the Appsmith installation to the latest version with:

  ```bash
  docker-compose pull && docker-compose rm -fsv appsmith && docker-compose up -d
  ```
The above command pulls the latest image of Appsmith and updates the installation after restarting the Docker container.

You may choose to schedule automatic updates for your Appsmith Docker installation. For more information, see [Schedule Automatic Updates for Docker installation](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/maintenance-window#docker).

## Update on Kubernetes

Before you begin the update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites). Follow these steps to update Appsmith:

* If you are on the **Community Edition**, update the installation to the latest release with:

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart statefulset appsmith
  ```
* If you are on the **Commerical Edition**, update the Appsmith container image to the latest release with: 

  ```bash
  kubectl rollout restart deployment appsmith
  ```
You may choose to schedule automatic updates for your Appsmith Kubernetes installation. For more information, see [Schedule Automatic Updates for Kubernetes installation](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/maintenance-window#kubernetes ).

## Update on AWS ECS EC2

Before you begin the update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites). Follow the below steps using the Classic Amazon Web Console to update Appsmith:

1. Log in to your [AWS account](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/).
2. Go to the **Amazon ECS console**.
3. Choose the **cluster** that has the container instance you wish to update.
4. Click the **Tasks** tab.
5. Select and click the **task** you wish to update. 
6. Click the **Stop** button to stop the task. Wait for the automatic deployment of a new task to complete.
7. Verify that the updated version of your application is running as expected.

## Update on Azure container instance

Before you begin the update, ensure you have met all the [prerequisites](#prerequisites).

1. Navigate to the Azure Container Instance (ACI) on the Azure Portal.
2. Click the **ACI** running Appsmith.
3. Click the **Restart** button.
4. Wait until the ACI restarts with the latest Appsmith release.

## Update on DigitalOcean

:::caution
It's recommended to back up the Appsmith instance before performing an update. For more information, see [How to Create a backup](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl#backup-instance).
:::

SSH into your droplet and run the following command:

```
cd /root/appsmith && docker-compose pull && docker-compose rm -fsv appsmith && docker-compose up -d
```

If you have updated your Appsmith instance and face any issues. You can roll back the changes and [restore the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl#restore-instance) from a backup archive.

## Troubleshooting

If you see errors, roll back to a previous version to fix the issue. For more information, see the [Restore instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl#restore-instance) section. If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.
