website/docs/connect-data/how-to-guides/connect-datasource.md, before:

---
description: This page shows you how to connect to a datasource on Appsmith.
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Connect Datasource

This page shows you how to connect to a datasource on Appsmith.

1. Click the **Explorer** tab on the entity explorer to the screen's left. 

2. Click the **+** icon next to **Datasources**.

3. From the list, select the datasource you need to connect to. This opens the page where you can configure the parameters to connect to your datasource. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/connecting-to-data-sources.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="List of Datasources"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>List of Datasources</i></figcaption>
</figure>

4. Rename the datasource to be able to identify it when creating queries.

5. If you are a self-hosted user, you need to whitelist the IP addresses `18.223.74.85` and `3.131.104.27` of the Appsmith deployment on your datasource instance before connecting to it. 

6. Set the required connection parameters to connect to your datasource. Appsmith encrypts all your datasource credentials and stores them securely. For a complete description of the connection parameters, see the [Reference guide](/connect-data/reference) for your datasource. 

:::info
If your datasource is locally hosted, follow the instructions in [Connect Datasouce on Local Machine](/connect-data/how-to-guides/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith) to get the hostname.
:::

7. Click the **Test** button to test the connection and ensure the datasource is valid.

8. Click **Save** to create and save the datasource connection.


## See also
[Query Data](/connect-data/how-to-guides/query-data)

Commit message:

feat: Multiple Environments (#1449)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [x] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [x] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [x] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [x] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/connect-data/how-to-guides/connect-datasource.md, after:

---
description: This page shows you how to connect to a datasource on Appsmith.
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Connect Datasource

This page shows you how to connect to a datasource on Appsmith.

1. Click the **Explorer** tab on the entity explorer to the screen's left. 

2. Click the **+** icon next to **Datasources**.

3. From the list, select the datasource you need to connect to. This opens the page where you can configure the parameters to connect to your datasource. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/connecting-to-data-sources.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="List of Datasources"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>List of Datasources</i></figcaption>
</figure>

4. Rename the datasource to be able to identify it when creating queries.

5. If you are a self-hosted user, you need to whitelist the IP addresses `18.223.74.85` and `3.131.104.27` of the Appsmith deployment on your datasource instance before connecting to it. 

6. Set the required connection parameters to connect to your datasource. If you are on [Business Edition](https://www.appsmith.com/pricing), you can configure production and staging datasources using [datasource environments](/connect-data/concepts/Datasource-Environments). Appsmith encrypts all your datasource credentials and stores them securely. For a complete description of the connection parameters, see the [Reference guide](/connect-data/reference) for your datasource. 

:::info
If your datasource is locally hosted, follow the instructions in [Connect Datasouce on Local Machine](/connect-data/how-to-guides/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith) to get the hostname.
:::

7. Click the **Test** button to test the connection and ensure the datasource is valid.

8. Click **Save** to create and save the datasource connection.

## See also
[Query Data](/connect-data/how-to-guides/query-data)
