website/docs/connect-data/how-to-guides/download-files-from-s3.md, before:

# Download Files from S3 

This page shows you steps to download a file from an S3 datasource.

## Prerequisites

- An [Amazon S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html) in one of the AWS Regions.
- App connected to [S3](https://docs.appsmith.com/connect-data/reference/querying-amazon-s3) datasource.
- A [Table](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/table) widget to bind data and download files.
- Make sure the server from which the file is retrieved is CORS-enabled and returns the required headers. To prevent download blocks, files must be served over HTTPS. For instructions to add a CORS configuration to your S3 bucket, see [CORS configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ManageCorsUsing.html).

## Download a file using the file URL

To configure the S3 query to fetch all the files from a bucket and download a file using file data, follow these steps:

1. In **Queries/JS**, click the **+ Add a new query/JS Object** and rename it to `list_files`.
2. Select your S3 datasource.
3. Select [List files in bucket](https://docs.appsmith.com/connect-data/reference/querying-amazon-s3#list-files-in-bucket) from **Commands.**
4. In **Generate signed URL**, select **Yes**.
   This gives each file in the response an authenticated, user-accessible URL. The URL expires after the amount of time specified in **Expiry duration** of signed URL.
5. Configure the [Table data](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/table#table-data-arrayobject) property of the widget to bind the response of the `list_files` query using `{{list_files.data}}`.
6. Set the widget's [onRowSelected](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/table#onrowselected) event to download a file corresponding to a selected row by pasting the following code where `s3_files_details` is the name of the Table widget:

   ```jsx
   {{download(s3_files_details.selectedRow.signedUrl,s3_files_details.selectedRow.fileName.split("/").pop())}}}
   ```
7. To test the download, click on any row on the table.

## Download a file using the file data

To configure the S3 query to read a file corresponding to a selected row, follow these steps:

1. In **Queries/JS**, click **+ Add a new query/JS Object** and rename it to `read_file`.
2. Select your S3 datasource.
3. Select [Read file](https://docs.appsmith.com/connect-data/reference/querying-amazon-s3#read-file) from **Commands.**
4. In **File path**, enter the path of the file to read the data. You can set this to the file path corresponding to the selected row using the JS expression `{{s3_files_details.selectedRow.filePath}}` where `s3_files_details` is the name of the Table widget.
5. In **Base64 encode file**, select **Yes** to encode the incoming file data to Base64 format. To decode the file content, use the [JavaScript `atob()` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/atob).
6. Set the widget's [onRowSelected](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/table#onrowselected) event to download a file corresponding to a selected row by pasting the following code:

   Base64 encoded file:
      ```jsx
      {{read_file.run(
      ()=>{download(atob(read_file.data.fileData),s3_files_details.selectedRow.fileName.split("/").pop())})}}
      ```

      File with no encoding:

      ```jsx
      {{read_file.run(
      ()=>{download(read_file.data.fileData),s3_files_details.selectedRow.fileName.split("/").pop()})}}
      ```

7. To test the download, click on any row on the table.

Commit message:

fix: Review comments for file download from S3 (#1810)
## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/connect-data/how-to-guides/download-files-from-s3.md, after:

# Download Files from S3 

This page shows you steps to download a file from an S3 datasource.

## Prerequisites

- An [Amazon S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html) in one of the AWS Regions.
- App connected to [S3](https://docs.appsmith.com/connect-data/reference/querying-amazon-s3) datasource.
- A [Table](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/table) widget to bind data and download files.
- Make sure the server from which the file is retrieved is CORS-enabled and returns the required headers. To prevent download blocks, files must be served over HTTPS. For instructions to add a CORS configuration to your S3 bucket, see [CORS configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ManageCorsUsing.html).

## Download single file from S3

To configure the S3 query to fetch all the files from a bucket and download a file using file data, follow these steps:

1. In **Queries/JS**, click the **+ Add a new query/JS Object** and rename it to `list_files`.
2. Select your S3 datasource.
3. Select [List files in bucket](https://docs.appsmith.com/connect-data/reference/querying-amazon-s3#list-files-in-bucket) from **Commands.**
4. Configure the [Table data](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/table#table-data-arrayobject) property of the widget to bind the response of the `list_files` query using `{{list_files.data}}`.
5. Set the widget's [onRowSelected](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/table#onrowselected) event to download a file corresponding to a selected row by pasting the following code where `s3_files_details` is the name of the Table widget:

   ```jsx
   {{download(s3_files_details.selectedRow.url,s3_files_details.selectedRow.fileName.split("/").pop())}}}
   ```
7. To test the download, click on any row on the table.

## Download multiple files from S3

To download multiple files from an S3 bucket, follow these steps:

1. Drag and drop a [Button widget](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/button) on to the canvas and rename it to `Download all`.
2. In **Queries/JS**, click **+ Add a new query/JS Object**, and then select **New JS Object**.
3. Rename it to `bulkDownload`.
4. Paste the following code to add a JavaScript function to download the files:
   ```jsx
   export default {
	async downloadFiles (url, fileName) {
			download(url, fileName.split("/").pop());
	}}
   ```
5. Set the widget's [onClick](https://docs.appsmith.com/reference/widgets/button#onclick) event to download all the files from the S3 bucket by pasting the following code:

   ```jsx
   {{ListFiles.data.forEach(fileobject => bulkDownload.downloadFiles(object.signedUrl,object.fileName))}}
   ```
6. To test the download, click the `Download all` button.
