website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/active-directory.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Active Directory
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Active Directory

To configure Appsmith to use [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.

2. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity URL** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Active Directory settings. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>SAML configuration in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application on Active Directory

1. Log in to your [Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) account and under **Azure Services**, click **Azure Active Directory**.
2. Go to **Manage Tenants** from the navigation bar, select your directory and click **Switch**.
3. In your directory's homepage, click **+ Add** > **Enterprise Application** from the navigation bar. 
4. Under the **Browse AD Azure Gallery** page, click **Create your own application** from the navigation bar.

   a. Add your application's name.

   b. Select **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)** from the **What are you looking to do with your application?** options.

   c. Click **Create**.

5. In your Application's Overview page, Click **Set up single sign on > **SAML**.
6. In the **SAML-based Sign-on** page, go to the **Basic SAML Configuration** section under **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** and click **Edit**. 

    a. Add the **Entity URL** under **Identifier (Entity ID)**.

    b. Add the **Redirect URL** under **Replay URL(Assertion Consumer Service URL).**

    c. Click **Save** on the navigation bar.

7. Go to the **SAML Certificates** section and copy the **App Federation Metadata Url** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.
8. Go back to the Application's Overview page, click **Assign users and groups** and add the users or groups to this application.

## Register Active Directory in Appsmith

To complete the SAML configuration, you’ll have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="active_directory-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="active_directory-metadataurl">

To register Active Directory as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **App Federation Metadata Url** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="active_directory-metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open the **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** page of your Active Directory application, go to **SAML Certificates** and click **Download** on **Federation Metadata XML**.
2. Open the Metadata XML file and copy the XML content.
3. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP Data" value="active_directory-idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open the Metadata URL in a browser tab or open the Metadata XML file.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |


</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with SAML SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

fix: Add custom domain information in SSO docs (#1400)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [x] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [x] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [x] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/active-directory.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Active Directory
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Active Directory

To configure Appsmith to use [Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.

2. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.

3. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity URL** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Active Directory settings. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>SAML configuration in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application on Active Directory

1. Log in to your [Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) account and under **Azure Services**, click **Azure Active Directory**.
2. Go to **Manage Tenants** from the navigation bar, select your directory and click **Switch**.
3. In your directory's homepage, click **+ Add** > **Enterprise Application** from the navigation bar. 
4. Under the **Browse AD Azure Gallery** page, click **Create your own application** from the navigation bar.

   a. Add your application's name.

   b. Select **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)** from the **What are you looking to do with your application?** options.

   c. Click **Create**.

5. In your Application's Overview page, Click **Set up single sign on > **SAML**.
6. In the **SAML-based Sign-on** page, go to the **Basic SAML Configuration** section under **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** and click **Edit**. 

    a. Add the **Entity URL** under **Identifier (Entity ID)**.

    b. Add the **Redirect URL** under **Replay URL(Assertion Consumer Service URL).**

    c. Click **Save** on the navigation bar.

7. Go to the **SAML Certificates** section and copy the **App Federation Metadata Url** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.
8. Go back to the Application's Overview page, click **Assign users and groups** and add the users or groups to this application.

## Register Active Directory in Appsmith

To complete the SAML configuration, you’ll have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="active_directory-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="active_directory-metadataurl">

To register Active Directory as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **App Federation Metadata Url** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="active_directory-metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open the **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** page of your Active Directory application, go to **SAML Certificates** and click **Download** on **Federation Metadata XML**.
2. Open the Metadata XML file and copy the XML content.
3. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP Data" value="active_directory-idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open the Metadata URL in a browser tab or open the Metadata XML file.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |


</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with SAML SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>
