website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/auth0.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Auth0
title: Auth0
hide_title: true
---
<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Auth0</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

To configure Appsmith to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites
1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > **Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add it later in the Auth0 settings. 

<ZoomImage src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" alt="SAML configurations" caption="SAML configuration in Appsmith" />

##  Create application on Auth0

1. Log in to your [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) account and go to **Applications** > **Create Application**. 
2. In the **Create application** modal, select **Regular Web Application** and click **Create**.
3. Once your application is created, you’re taken to the Quick Start screen. Go to the **Settings** tab.
4. Scroll down to the **Application URIs** and paste the **Redirect URL** copied earlier in the **Allowed Callback URLs** field.
5. Click **Save Changes**.
6. On the **Settings** tab, go to **Advanced Settings** > **Endpoints**. Scroll down to the **SAML** section, and copy the SAML **Metadata URL** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.


## Register Auth0 in Appsmith

:::caution
If you are running Appsmith on **Google Cloud Run** or **AWS ECS**, make sure to configure your service before setting up SSO. For detailed instructions, see the [**Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/setup-to-integrate-sso), or [**Create PostgreSQL RDS for SAML SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ecs/setup-postgresql-aws-ecs) guide.
:::

To complete the SAML configuration, you have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="auth0-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="auth0metadataurl">

To register Auth0 as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to the **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **Metadata URL** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="auth0metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open the copied **Metadata URL** in a browser tab and copy the XML content.
2. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP data" value="auth0idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open the Metadata URL in a browser tab or open the Metadata XML file.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |


</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<ZoomImage src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.jpg" alt="SAML-login" caption="Login with SAML SSO " />

## Troubleshooting

If you are facing issues contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## See also
- [Remove Account Update Screen](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/disable-update-account-info)

Commit message:

fix: SAML SSO setup fails on kubernetes HA setup (#2606)
## Description 

Provide a concise summary of the changes made in this pull request
- 

## Pull request type

Check the appropriate box:

- [ ] Review Fixes
- [ ] Documentation Overhaul
- [ ] Feature/Story
    - Link one or more Engineering Tickets
        * 
- [ ] A-Force
- [ ] Error in documentation
- [ ] Maintenance

## Documentation tickets

 Link to one or more documentation tickets:
 - 

## Checklist

From the below options, select the ones that are applicable:

- [ ] Checked for Grammarly suggestions.
- [ ] Adhered to the writing checklist.
- [ ] Adhered to the media checklist.
- [ ] Verified and updated cross-references or added redirect rules.
- [ ] Tested the redirect rules on deploy preview.
- [ ] Validated the modifications made to the content on the deploy
preview.
- [ ] Validated the CSS modifications on different screen sizes.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/auth0.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Auth0
title: Auth0
hide_title: true
---
<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Auth0</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

To configure Appsmith to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites
1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > **Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add it later in the Auth0 settings. 

<ZoomImage src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" alt="SAML configurations" caption="SAML configuration in Appsmith" />

##  Create application on Auth0

1. Log in to your [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) account and go to **Applications** > **Create Application**. 
2. In the **Create application** modal, select **Regular Web Application** and click **Create**.
3. Once your application is created, you’re taken to the Quick Start screen. Go to the **Settings** tab.
4. Scroll down to the **Application URIs** and paste the **Redirect URL** copied earlier in the **Allowed Callback URLs** field.
5. Click **Save Changes**.
6. On the **Settings** tab, go to **Advanced Settings** > **Endpoints**. Scroll down to the **SAML** section, and copy the SAML **Metadata URL** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.


## Register Auth0 in Appsmith

:::caution
If you are running Appsmith on **Google Cloud Run** or **AWS ECS**, make sure to configure your service before setting up SSO. For detailed instructions, see the [**Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/setup-to-integrate-sso), or [**Create PostgreSQL RDS for SAML SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ecs/setup-postgresql-aws-ecs) guide.
:::

To complete the SAML configuration, you have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="auth0-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="auth0metadataurl">

To register Auth0 as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to the **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **Metadata URL** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="auth0metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open the copied **Metadata URL** in a browser tab and copy the XML content.
2. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP data" value="auth0idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open the Metadata URL in a browser tab or open the Metadata XML file.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |


</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

:::info
If you're running Appsmith on a **Kubernetes** cluster with an HA configuration, after completing the setup, run the following command to ensure the new authentication settings are properly applied:

```js
kubectl rollout restart deployment/appsmith -n
```
:::

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<ZoomImage src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.jpg" alt="SAML-login" caption="Login with SAML SSO " />

## Troubleshooting

If you are facing issues contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## See also
- [Remove Account Update Screen](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/disable-update-account-info)
