website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/entra-id.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Microsoft Entra ID
title: Microsoft Entra ID
hide_title: true
---
<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Microsoft Entra ID(Azure AD)</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page shows how to configure [Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/security/business/identity-access/microsoft-entra-id) as a SAML provider on your Appsmith instance. You may also follow the video tutorial on how to configure SAML Single Sign-on with <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_IUPUbu9tgI" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" className="external-link">Azure Entra ID</a>.

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity URL** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Entra ID settings. 

<ZoomImage src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" alt="SAML configurations" caption="SAML configuration in Appsmith" />

## Create application on Microsoft Entra ID

1. Log in to your [Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) account and under **Azure Services**, click **Microsoft Entra ID**.
 
<dd>
<ZoomImage src="/img/Entra-home.png" alt="Azure Home" caption="Azure Home" />

</dd>

2. Go to **Manage Tenants** from the navigation bar, select your directory and click **Switch**.

<dd>
<ZoomImage src="/img/Entra-manage.png" alt="Manage Tenants" caption="Manage Tenants" />

</dd>

3. In your directory's homepage, click **+ Add** > **Enterprise Application** from the navigation bar. 

4. Under the **Browse AD Azure Gallery** page, click **Create your own application** from the navigation bar.

<dd>

  a. Add your application's name.

  b. Select **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)** from the **What are you looking to do with your application?** options.

  c. Click **Create**.

</dd>

5. In your Application's Overview page, Click **Set up single sign on > SAML**.

<dd>
<ZoomImage src="/img/entra-sso.png" alt="Set up single sign on" caption="Set up single sign on" />

</dd>

6. In the **SAML-based Sign-on** page, go to the **Basic SAML Configuration** section under **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** and click **Edit**. 

<dd>

  a. Add the **Entity URL** under **Identifier (Entity ID)**.

  b. Add the **Redirect URL** under **Replay URL(Assertion Consumer Service URL).**

  c. Click **Save** on the navigation bar.

</dd>

7. In the **Attributes & Claims** section, click **Edit**.

<dd>

  a. Click the **Unique User Identifier (Name ID)** claim and update the following fields:

    - In the **Name identifier format** field, select **Email address** from the dropdown.
    - Select **Attribute** from the given options in **Source**.
    - In the **source attribute** field, select the option from the dropdown that stores the user’s email address. This is an important configuration to ensure that the user’s email is passed to Appsmith while signing in.
    - Click **Save**.
    
  b. If you are only interested in simple authentication via SAML, you can skip this step. However, if you want to configure custom claims, follow the steps below:
    
    - Click **Add new claim**, fill in the details and click **Save**. 
    - Once saved, ensure that it is visible in the **Additional claims** section. 
    - Copy the **claim name** for the newly created claim to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.

</dd>

8. Go to the **SAML Certificates** section and copy the **App Federation Metadata Url** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.

9. Go back to the Application's Overview page, click **Assign users and groups** and add the users or groups to this application.

## Register Entra ID in Appsmith

:::caution
If you are running Appsmith on **Google Cloud Run** or **AWS ECS**, make sure to configure your service before setting up SSO. For detailed instructions, see the [**Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/setup-to-integrate-sso), or [**Create PostgreSQL RDS for SAML SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ecs/setup-postgresql-aws-ecs) guide.
:::

To complete the SAML configuration, you’ll have to register the identity provider on Appsmith as mentioned below:


1. Open the copied **App Federation Metadata Url** in a browser tab.

2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

<dd>

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter this value - `urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress` |

</dd>

3. To configure custom SAML claims (if added in the Entra ID's **Claims and Attributes**) in Appsmith, Click the **Advanced** section. 

<dd>

  a. For each custom claim, enter a name in the **Key** field that references the custom SAML claim within Appsmith.

  b. In the **Value** field, enter the exact **claim name** that you copied from the Entra ID's **Attributes and Claims** section.

</dd>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<ZoomImage src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.jpg" alt="SAML-login" caption="Login with SAML SSO " />

## Troubleshooting

If you are facing issues contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## See also
- [Setup SCIM provisioning](/advanced-concepts/user-provisioning-group-sync#enable-scim-provisioning-on-appsmith)
- [Remove Account Update Screen](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/disable-update-account-info)

Commit message:

fix: SAML SSO setup fails on kubernetes HA setup

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/entra-id.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Microsoft Entra ID
title: Microsoft Entra ID
hide_title: true
---
<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Microsoft Entra ID(Azure AD)</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page shows how to configure [Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/security/business/identity-access/microsoft-entra-id) as a SAML provider on your Appsmith instance. You may also follow the video tutorial on how to configure SAML Single Sign-on with <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_IUPUbu9tgI" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" className="external-link">Azure Entra ID</a>.

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings > Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity URL** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Entra ID settings. 

<ZoomImage src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" alt="SAML configurations" caption="SAML configuration in Appsmith" />

## Create application on Microsoft Entra ID

1. Log in to your [Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) account and under **Azure Services**, click **Microsoft Entra ID**.
 
<dd>
<ZoomImage src="/img/Entra-home.png" alt="Azure Home" caption="Azure Home" />

</dd>

2. Go to **Manage Tenants** from the navigation bar, select your directory and click **Switch**.

<dd>
<ZoomImage src="/img/Entra-manage.png" alt="Manage Tenants" caption="Manage Tenants" />

</dd>

3. In your directory's homepage, click **+ Add** > **Enterprise Application** from the navigation bar. 

4. Under the **Browse AD Azure Gallery** page, click **Create your own application** from the navigation bar.

<dd>

  a. Add your application's name.

  b. Select **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)** from the **What are you looking to do with your application?** options.

  c. Click **Create**.

</dd>

5. In your Application's Overview page, Click **Set up single sign on > SAML**.

<dd>
<ZoomImage src="/img/entra-sso.png" alt="Set up single sign on" caption="Set up single sign on" />

</dd>

6. In the **SAML-based Sign-on** page, go to the **Basic SAML Configuration** section under **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** and click **Edit**. 

<dd>

  a. Add the **Entity URL** under **Identifier (Entity ID)**.

  b. Add the **Redirect URL** under **Replay URL(Assertion Consumer Service URL).**

  c. Click **Save** on the navigation bar.

</dd>

7. In the **Attributes & Claims** section, click **Edit**.

<dd>

  a. Click the **Unique User Identifier (Name ID)** claim and update the following fields:

    - In the **Name identifier format** field, select **Email address** from the dropdown.
    - Select **Attribute** from the given options in **Source**.
    - In the **source attribute** field, select the option from the dropdown that stores the user’s email address. This is an important configuration to ensure that the user’s email is passed to Appsmith while signing in.
    - Click **Save**.
    
  b. If you are only interested in simple authentication via SAML, you can skip this step. However, if you want to configure custom claims, follow the steps below:
    
    - Click **Add new claim**, fill in the details and click **Save**. 
    - Once saved, ensure that it is visible in the **Additional claims** section. 
    - Copy the **claim name** for the newly created claim to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.

</dd>

8. Go to the **SAML Certificates** section and copy the **App Federation Metadata Url** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.

9. Go back to the Application's Overview page, click **Assign users and groups** and add the users or groups to this application.

## Register Entra ID in Appsmith

:::caution
If you are running Appsmith on **Google Cloud Run** or **AWS ECS**, make sure to configure your service before setting up SSO. For detailed instructions, see the [**Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/setup-to-integrate-sso), or [**Create PostgreSQL RDS for SAML SSO**](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ecs/setup-postgresql-aws-ecs) guide.
:::

To complete the SAML configuration, you’ll have to register the identity provider on Appsmith as mentioned below:


1. Open the copied **App Federation Metadata Url** in a browser tab.

2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

<dd>

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter this value - `urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress` |

</dd>

3. To configure custom SAML claims (if added in the Entra ID's **Claims and Attributes**) in Appsmith, Click the **Advanced** section. 

<dd>

  a. For each custom claim, enter a name in the **Key** field that references the custom SAML claim within Appsmith.

  b. In the **Value** field, enter the exact **claim name** that you copied from the Entra ID's **Attributes and Claims** section.

</dd>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

:::info
If you're running Appsmith on a **Kubernetes** cluster with an HA configuration, after completing the setup, run the following command to ensure the new authentication settings are properly applied:

```js
kubectl rollout restart deployment/appsmith -n
```
:::

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<ZoomImage src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.jpg" alt="SAML-login" caption="Login with SAML SSO " />

## Troubleshooting

If you are facing issues contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## See also
- [Setup SCIM provisioning](/advanced-concepts/user-provisioning-group-sync#enable-scim-provisioning-on-appsmith)
- [Remove Account Update Screen](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/disable-update-account-info)
