website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/okta.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Okta
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Okta

To configure Appsmith to use [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > **Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.

2. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity ID** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Okta settings. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>SAML configuration in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application on Okta

1. Log in to your [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) account and on the **Get started with Okta** page, click **Add App** for **Use single sign on**.
2. On the **Browse App Integration Catalog** page, click **Create New App**. 
3. A pop-up titled **Create a new app integration** appears. Choose **SAML 2.0** as the Sign-in method and click **Next**.
4. On the **Create SAML Integration** page, add a name for your app in **General settings**. Click **Next**.
5. In **Configure SAML**:

    a. Add the **Redirect URL** in **Single sign-on URL** field.

    b. Add the **Entity ID** in the **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)** field.

    c. From the **Name ID format** options, select **emailAddress**.

    d. Pick **Email** from the **Application username** options. 

    e. Click **Next** to proceed.

6. Fill in the required feedback or additional information in the final step and click **Finish**.
7. On your application's homepage, go to the **Sign-on tab** and copy the **Metadata** URL from the **SAML 2.0** section to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.
8. Go to the Assignments tab, and click **Assign** to assign people or groups to this application.

## Register Okta in Appsmith

To complete the SAML configuration, you have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="okta-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="okta-metadataurl">

To register Okta as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to the **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **Metadata URL** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="okta-metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open the copied Metadata URL in a browser tab and copy the XML content.
2. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP Data" value="okta-idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open the Metadata URL in a browser tab or open the Metadata XML file.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with SAML SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

fix: Add custom domain information in SSO docs (#1400)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [x] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [x] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [x] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/okta.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Okta
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Okta

To configure Appsmith to use [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.

2. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > **Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.

3. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity ID** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Okta settings. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>SAML configuration in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create application on Okta

1. Log in to your [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) account and on the **Get started with Okta** page, click **Add App** for **Use single sign on**.
2. On the **Browse App Integration Catalog** page, click **Create New App**. 
3. A pop-up titled **Create a new app integration** appears. Choose **SAML 2.0** as the Sign-in method and click **Next**.
4. On the **Create SAML Integration** page, add a name for your app in **General settings**. Click **Next**.
5. In **Configure SAML**:

    a. Add the **Redirect URL** in **Single sign-on URL** field.

    b. Add the **Entity ID** in the **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)** field.

    c. From the **Name ID format** options, select **emailAddress**.

    d. Pick **Email** from the **Application username** options. 

    e. Click **Next** to proceed.

6. Fill in the required feedback or additional information in the final step and click **Finish**.
7. On your application's homepage, go to the **Sign-on tab** and copy the **Metadata** URL from the **SAML 2.0** section to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.
8. Go to the Assignments tab, and click **Assign** to assign people or groups to this application.

## Register Okta in Appsmith

To complete the SAML configuration, you have to register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="okta-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="okta-metadataurl">

To register Okta as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to the **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **Metadata URL** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="okta-metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open the copied Metadata URL in a browser tab and copy the XML content.
2. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP Data" value="okta-idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open the Metadata URL in a browser tab or open the Metadata XML file.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with SAML SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>
