website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/ping-identity.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Ping Identity
title: Ping Identity
hide_title: true
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Ping Identity</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';



To configure Appsmith to use [Ping Identity](https://www.pingidentity.com/en.html) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > **Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity ID** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Ping Identity settings. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>SAML configuration in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

##  Create application on Ping Identity

1. Log into your [PingOne](https://www.pingidentity.com/en/account/sign-on.html) account. On the homepage, click **Add Environment** from the top right corner.
2. On the Create Environment screen, select **Build your own solution**. 

    a. Click **PingOne SSO** from **Cloud Services** under the **Select solution(s) for your Environment** section. Click **Next**

    b. Enter the environment name and description. Click **Next**.

3. Open the newly created Environment, and from the sidebar, go to **Connections** > **Applications**.
4. On the Applications homepage, click the **+** icon to create a new application. On the **Add Application** panel:

    a. Enter the application name and description.

    b. Select the **Application Type** as **SAML Application**. Click **Configure**.

    c. On the SAML Configuration panel, select **Manually Enter**.

    d. Add the **Redirect URL** in the **ACS URLs** field.

    e. Add the **Entity ID** in the  **Entity ID** field.

    f. Click **Save**. 

5. Open your application, go to the **Configurations** tab, and copy the **IDP Metadata URL** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.
6. On your application panel, switch the toggle button at the top right corner to enable user access to the application. 


## Register Ping Identity in Appsmith

To complete the SAML configuration, you must register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider, as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="pingidentity-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="pingidentity-metadataurl">

To register Ping Identity as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to the **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith, and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **IDP Metadata URL** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="pingidentity-metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open your Ping identity application, go to **Configurations**, and click **Download Metadata**.
2. Open the downloaded Metadata file in a browser and copy the XML content.
2. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP data" value="pingidentity-idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open your Ping identity application, go to **Configurations**, and click **Download Metadata**. 
2. Open the downloaded Metadata file in a browser.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |


</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with SAML SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

SSO callout for Google Cloud Run

website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/authentication/security-assertion-markup-language-saml/ping-identity.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  Setup SAML using Ping Identity
title: Ping Identity
hide_title: true
---

<!-- vale off -->

<div className="tag-wrapper">
 <h1>Ping Identity</h1>

<Tags
tags={[
{ name: "Enterprise", link: "https://www.appsmith.com/pricing", additionalClass: "enterprise" }
]}
/>

</div>

<!-- vale on -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';



To configure Appsmith to use [Ping Identity](https://www.pingidentity.com/en.html) as a SAML provider, follow the steps below:

## Prerequisites

1. A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
2. Before setting up Single Sign-On (SSO), ensure that you have already configured a [custom domain](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain) for your instance.
3. In Appsmith, go to **Admin Settings** > **Authentication** and click **Enable** on  **SAML 2.0**.
4. Copy the **Redirect URL** and **Entity ID** from the **SAML 2.0** configuration page to add them later in the Ping Identity settings. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/SAML-config_appsmith.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML configurations"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>SAML configuration in Appsmith</i></figcaption>
</figure>

##  Create application on Ping Identity

1. Log into your [PingOne](https://www.pingidentity.com/en/account/sign-on.html) account. On the homepage, click **Add Environment** from the top right corner.
2. On the Create Environment screen, select **Build your own solution**. 

    a. Click **PingOne SSO** from **Cloud Services** under the **Select solution(s) for your Environment** section. Click **Next**

    b. Enter the environment name and description. Click **Next**.

3. Open the newly created Environment, and from the sidebar, go to **Connections** > **Applications**.
4. On the Applications homepage, click the **+** icon to create a new application. On the **Add Application** panel:

    a. Enter the application name and description.

    b. Select the **Application Type** as **SAML Application**. Click **Configure**.

    c. On the SAML Configuration panel, select **Manually Enter**.

    d. Add the **Redirect URL** in the **ACS URLs** field.

    e. Add the **Entity ID** in the  **Entity ID** field.

    f. Click **Save**. 

5. Open your application, go to the **Configurations** tab, and copy the **IDP Metadata URL** to add it later in the SAML configurations in Appsmith.
6. On your application panel, switch the toggle button at the top right corner to enable user access to the application. 


## Register Ping Identity in Appsmith

:::info
If you are running Appsmith on Google Cloud Run, make sure to configure your service before setting up SSO. For detailed instructions, see the [Configure Google Cloud Run for SSO](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run/setup-to-integrate-sso) guide.
:::

To complete the SAML configuration, you must register the identity provider on Appsmith. Appsmith provides three options to register the identity provider, as mentioned below:

<Tabs queryString="pingidentity-saml">
<TabItem label="Metadata URL (recommended)" value="pingidentity-metadataurl">

To register Ping Identity as the identity provider on Appsmith, follow the steps below:
1. Go to the **SAML 2.0** configuration page in Appsmith, and navigate to **Register Identity Provider** section.
2. Add the copied **IDP Metadata URL** in the **Metadata URL** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Metadata XML" value="pingidentity-metdataxml">

To set up SAML using the raw Metadata XML file, follow the steps below:
1. Open your Ping identity application, go to **Configurations**, and click **Download Metadata**.
2. Open the downloaded Metadata file in a browser and copy the XML content.
2. Navigate to Appsmith and add the raw XML in the **Metadata XML** field under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the **SAML 2.0** configuration page.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="IdP data" value="pingidentity-idpdata">

If you have Identity provider data like **X509 Public Certificate**, **Email**, you can choose this option to configure SAML.

1. Open your Ping identity application, go to **Configurations**, and click **Download Metadata**. 
2. Open the downloaded Metadata file in a browser.
2. Add the following values from XML tags in **IdP Data** under the **Register Identity Provider** section in the Appsmith **SAML 2.0** configuration page: 

| <div style= {{width:"200px"}}> **IdP Data Field ** </div>  | <div style= {{width:"auto"}}> **Metadata XML Tag**  </div>                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Entity ID**               | Enter the value of the **entityID** attribute specified in the `<EntityDescriptor>` tag.                 |
| **Single Sign-On URL**      | Enter the value of **location** attribute specified in the `<SingleSignOnService>` tag. |
| **X509 Public Certificate** | Enter the value specified in the `<X509Certificate>` tag. |
| **Email**                   | Enter the value specified in the `<NameIDFormat>` tag. |


</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once you have added the details, click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configuration and restart the instance. 

After the Appsmith instance restarts, try logging in again to your account. You'll see a login screen with the **SIGN IN WITH SAML SSO** button.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/Appsmith-Login-Screen-Shows-SAML.png" style= {{width:"400px", height:"auto"}} alt="SAML-login"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Login with SAML SSO </i></figcaption>
</figure>
