---
description: >-
 Configure an email provider of your choice to send and receive email
 notifications in Appsmith
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Email

This page guides you through configuring an email service provider on your self-hosted instance. By configuring email, you can leverage the below capabilities:

* Invite users to join your Appsmith workspace by sending email invitations.
* Reset password using password reset emails.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="NOAofPbmJWw" title="Configure Email Service Provider." caption="Configure Email Service Provider" /> 

## Prerequisites
* A self-hosted Appsmith instance. See the [installation guides](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides) for installing Appsmith.
* Account with your email provider.

## Configure email
 On Appsmith, you can configure email by using one of the following ways:

* [Admin settings](#admin-settings)
* [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

### Admin settings

:::caution Attention
If you have configured email using [environment variables](#environment-variables) for your instance, it takes precedence over the configuration provided through the Admin Settings UI.
:::

Follow these steps to configure your email provider using Admin Settings:

1. Log into your Appsmith instance as a superuser.

2. Go to the **Admin Settings** screen.

3. Select **Email** from the left nav bar.

<ZoomImage src="/img/admin-settings-configure-email.png" alt="Email service provider" caption="Configure your email service provider" />

4. Add the configuration details for your email provider as below: 

    <dl>
    <dt><b>SMTP host</b></dt>
    <dd> Add the SMTP host of your email service provider. </dd> <br/>
    <dt><b>SMTP port</b></dt>
    <dd> Add the SMTP port of your email service provider. </dd><br/>
    <dt><b>From address</b></dt>
    <dd>Add a verified email address to be shown in the <b>From</b> field when users receive an email.
    </dd> <br/>
    <dt><b>Reply-to address</b></dt>
    <dd>Add a verified email address, so users can contact you.</dd> <br/>
    <dt><b>Enable TLS protected connection</b></dt>
    <dd>This option is turned off by default. Toggle it to enable the transport layer security protocol.</dd> <br/>
    <dt><b>SMTP username</b></dt>
    <dd>Add the username for your email service provider. This is only needed when TLS is turned on.</dd> <br/>
    <dt><b>SMTP password</b></dt>
    <dd> Add the password for your email service provider. This is only needed when TLS is turned on.</dd> 
    </dl>

5. Click the **SEND TEST EMAIL** button to verify the configuration. A toast message appears at the top of the page, indicating the success or failure of the test. Additionally, a test email is sent to your inbox on successful verification.

6. Click the **SAVE & RESTART** button to save the configurations and restart the instance with the updated settings.

### Environment variables

Follow these steps to configure your email provider using environment variables:

1. Go to your Appsmith instance configuration file. For example, the `docker.env` file for Docker and the `values.yaml` file for Kubernetes.

2. Update the values of the environment variables as shown below:

    <dl>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_ENABLED</b></dt>
    <dd>Set it to <code> true </code> to enable the email service.</dd> <br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_FROM</b></dt>
    <dd>Set it to the verified email of the sender.
    </dd><br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_REPLY_TO</b></dt>
    <dd>Set it to the email that should receive replies by default.</dd><br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_HOST</b></dt>
    <dd>Set it to the SMTP Host of the email service provider.</dd><br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_PORT</b></dt>
    <dd>Set it to the SMTP port of the email service provider. </dd><br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_SMTP_TLS_ENABLED</b></dt>
    <dd>
        Set it to <code>true</code> to enable transport layer security.
    </dd><br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_SMTP_AUTH</b></dt>
    <dd>Set it to <code>true</code> to share the <code>APPSMITH_MAIL_USERNAME</code> and <code>APPSMITH_MAIL_PASSWORD</code> with the SMTP server.</dd><br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_USERNAME</b></dt>
    <dd> Set it to the username for accessing the SMTP service provider. This is only needed when the transport layer security protocol is turned on. </dd><br/>
    <dt><b>APPSMITH_MAIL_PASSWORD</b></dt>
    <dd>Set it to the password for the SMTP user. Alternatively, you can use the API key generated by the email service provider for the SMTP user. This is only needed when the transport layer security protocol is turned on. </dd>
    </dl>

3. Save the changes and restart the Appsmith instance.

## Troubleshooting

You may encounter some common errors after configuring your email provider:

- [Unable to send emails](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-send-emails)

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## See also

To configure email with popular email service providers, see the guides below:

* [Gmail](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email/gmail)
* [SendGrid](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email/sendgrid)
* [Amazon SES](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email/amazon-ses)
