website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ami.md, before:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on AWS with an AMI available on the AWS marketplace.
sidebar_position: 4
---

# AWS AMI
This page provides steps to install Appsmith using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI).

## Prerequisites

- Amazon Web Services (AWS) account. If you don't have one, [Create an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).
- An Amazon EC2 key pair. If you don't have one, [Generate an SSH Key pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html#having-ec2-create-your-key-pair).
- An Amazon Security group with ports 80, 443, and 22 accessible. If you don't have one, [Create a Security Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#creating-security-group).
- To enable port access, [add an inbound rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#adding-security-group-rule) for the port ranges 80, 443, and 22 to the security group you created above.
- Ensure you have created the security group and the SSH key pair in the same region.

## Install Appsmith

Follow these steps to install Appsmith using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI):

1. Go to the **EC2 Dashboard**.
2. Scroll down to the **Launch instance** section.
3. Click the **Launch instance** button, and select **Launch instance**.
4. On the **Launch instance** screen, scroll down to the **Application and OS images(Amazon Machine Image)** section.
5. Search for **Appsmith** in the search bar.
6. In the search results, click **AWS Marketplace AMIs**.
7. Select the image:
    * To install the **Community Edition**, click on the **Select** button available on the right side of the **Appsmith Community Edition** image.
    * To install the **Business Edition**, click on the **Select** button available on the right side of the **Appsmith Business Edition** image.
   
8. On the **Launch an instance** screen:

 a. Configure the instance as below:

 | Attribute | Value |
 |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
 | **Name** | Give a desired name. |
 | **Instance type** | A minimum `t3.medium` or `t3a.medium` is needed. |
 | **Key pair** | Select the Key pair you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. |

 b. Scroll down to the **Networking** section, and configure as below:

 | Attribute | Value |
 |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
 | **Firewall (security groups)** | Select **Select existing security group** checkbox.|
 | **Security groups** | Select the security group that you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. |
 
9. Keep the default selection for other fields.

10. Click the **Launch Instance** button. You see a launch status screen as shown below:

<figure>
 <img src="/img/aws_ami_create_server_status.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="A launch status screen shows the server status." />
 <figcaption align="center"><i>A launch status screen shows the server status</i></figcaption>
</figure>

11. Follow these steps to verify the Appsmith installation:

 a. On the **Launch status** screen, click the **EC2 instance id** available in the bracket.

 b. Click the **Instance ID** to access the **Instance Summary** page.

 c. Copy the **Public IPv4 address** available on the **Instance Summary** page.

 <figure>
 <img src="/img/aws-ecs-ami-find-DNS-to-access-appsmith.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Use DNS or Public IP to access Appsmith." />
 <figcaption align="center"><i>Use DNS or Public IP to access Appsmith</i></figcaption>
 </figure>
 
 d. Paste it in a browser tab and wait for the server to come up. It can take up to 5 minutes. 
 
 e. Once the server is up and running, you can see the login screen of Appsmith.

12. Follow these steps to log into the instance using default root admin credentials:

 a. Username: `appsmith@example.com`

 b. Find the password in one of the below ways:

    * SSH into your server using your private key and find the application credentials with:
    ```
    sudo cat /home/ubuntu/appsmith/credential
    ``` 
    * **Or** review the system log, by selecting **Get System Log** from the **Actions** drop-down menu for your instance. The credentials are printed in the logs as shown below:

  :::caution Attention
  The application password is **only** available in system logs for the initial 24 hours. It's recommended that create a new admin user and delete the `appsmith@example.com user` immediately.
  :::

 <figure>
   <img src="/img/aws-system-log.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Appsmith default credentials" />
   <figcaption align="center"><i>Appsmith default credentials</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

13. If you are on a **Business Edition**:
    * Sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com/) and generate a trial license key.
    * Enter your license key to activate the instance.


## Troubleshooting

Some common errors that you may face during installation:

- [Unable to access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith)
- [Containers failed to restart](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#containers-failed-to-start)

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading

* [Add super admins to your instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#add-super-admins).
* [Configure Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/)
* [Managing Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)

Commit message:

feat: One-click AWS AMI (#1775)
## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ami.md, after:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on AWS with an AMI available on the AWS marketplace.
sidebar_position: 4
---

# AWS AMI
This page provides steps to install Appsmith using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI).

## Prerequisites

- Amazon Web Services (AWS) account. If you don't have one, [Create an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).
- An Amazon EC2 key pair. If you don't have one, [Generate an SSH Key pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html#having-ec2-create-your-key-pair).
- An Amazon Security group with ports 80, 443, and 22 accessible. If you don't have one, [Create a Security Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#creating-security-group).
- To enable port access, [add an inbound rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#adding-security-group-rule) for the port ranges 80, 443, and 22 to the security group you created above.
- Ensure you have created the security group and the SSH key pair in the same region.

## Install Appsmith

Follow these steps to install Appsmith using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI):

1. Go to the **EC2 Dashboard**.
2. Scroll down to the **Launch instance** section.
3. Click the **Launch instance** button, and select **Launch instance**.
4. On the **Launch instance** screen, scroll down to the **Application and OS images(Amazon Machine Image)** section.
5. Search for **Appsmith** in the search bar.
6. In the search results, click **AWS Marketplace AMIs**.
<a id="select-appsmith-image"></a>
7. Select the [Appsmith](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-mrpgdd3mhpvbs) image.
8. On the **Launch an instance** screen:

 a. Configure the instance as below:

 | Attribute | Value |
 |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
 | **Name** | Give a desired name. |
 | **Instance type** | A minimum `t3.medium` or `t3a.medium` is needed. |
 | **Key pair** | Select the Key pair you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. |

 b. Scroll down to the **Networking** section, and configure as below:

 | Attribute | Value |
 |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
 | **Firewall (security groups)** | Choose **Select existing security group** checkbox.|
 | **Security groups** | Select the security group that you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. |
 
9. Keep the default selection for other fields.

10. Click the **Launch Instance** button. You see a launch status screen as shown below:

<figure>
 <img src="/img/aws_ami_create_server_status.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="A launch status screen shows the server status." />
 <figcaption align="center"><i>A launch status screen shows the server status</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Verify Appsmith installation

1. On the **Launch status** screen, click the **EC2 instance id** available in the bracket.

2. Click the **Instance ID** to access the **Instance Summary** page.

3. Copy the **Public IPv4 address** available on the **Instance Summary** page.

 <figure>
 <img src="/img/aws-ecs-ami-find-DNS-to-access-appsmith.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Use DNS or Public IP to access Appsmith." />
 <figcaption align="center"><i>Use DNS or Public IP to access Appsmith</i></figcaption>
 </figure>
 
4. Paste it in a browser tab and wait for the server to come up. It can take up to 5 minutes. 
 
5. Once the server is up and running, you can see the login screen of Appsmith.

### Login with root admin

1. Username: `appsmith@example.com`

2. Find the password in one of the below ways:

  * SSH into your server using your private key and find the application credentials with:
    ```
    sudo cat /home/ubuntu/appsmith/credential
    ``` 
  * **Or** review the system log, by selecting **Get System Log** from the **Actions** drop-down menu for your instance. The credentials are printed in the logs as shown below:

  :::caution Attention
  The application password is **only** available in system logs for the initial 24 hours. It's recommended that create a new admin user and delete the `appsmith@example.com user` immediately.
  :::

 <figure>
   <img src="/img/aws-system-log.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Appsmith default credentials" />
   <figcaption align="center"><i>Appsmith default credentials</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

3. Once you've created an account, you can either start with the free plan or activate your instance with a license key. If you want to generate a license key, sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) to create one, and then proceed to activate your instance using the newly generated license key.

## Install Appsmith Community
 
 To install the open source edition of Appsmith (Appsmith Community), choose the [Appsmith Community Edition](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-mclslaty46ah4) in the [image selection](#select-appsmith-image) step, and then follow the instructions provided on this page.

## Troubleshooting

Some common errors that you may face during installation:

- [Unable to access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith)
- [Containers failed to restart](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#containers-failed-to-start)

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading

* [Add super admins to your instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#add-super-admins).
* [Configure Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/)
* [Managing Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)
