website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ecs-on-fargate.md, before:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on the ECS cluster using Fargate.
---

# AWS ECS on Fargate

This page provides steps to install Appsmith on AWS ECS using Fargate.

## Prerequisites

* **Amazon Web Services (AWS) account** - If you don't have one, [Create an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).
* **Application Load Balancer (ALB)** - If you already have an ALB, follow these steps:
    * Provision an [Application Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/create-application-load-balancer.html#configure-load-balancer), and ensure that port 80 and 443 are available to configure ECS service.
    * Add or create a security group with ports 80 and 443 accessible. 
* **Amazon Elastic File System (EFS)** - If you haven't set up an EFS yet, follow these steps:
    * Go to **AWS EFS** and click the **Create file system** button.
    * Give a meaningful name to your file system and configure VPC. 
    * Refresh the file system listing, and select the file system you created above.
    * Go to the **Network** tab, and click **Manage** button on the right side.
    * Select the security group with port `2049` accessible. If you don't have one:
        * [Create a Security Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#creating-security-group)
        * To enable port access, [add an inbound rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#adding-security-group-rule) for the port `2049` for NFS access to the security group you created above.
        * Attach the security group to the EFS mount target.
* **ECS Exec Policy** - Set up a policy to allow ECS Exec capability by following these steps:
    * Go to the **IAM** console and select **Policies**.
    * Click **Create Policy**.
    * On **Specify Permissions** screen, choose JSON for policy editor, and update the policy with the below details:

        ```javascript
        {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "ssmmessages:CreateControlChannel",
                        "ssmmessages:CreateDataChannel",
                        "ssmmessages:OpenControlChannel",
                        "ssmmessages:OpenDataChannel"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "*"
                }
                ]
        }
        ```
    - Click the **Next** button.
    - On **Review and Create** screen, give a meaningful name to your policy and click the **Create Policy** button. The new policy will be available in the list of policies.
* **ECS Task Role** - Set up an ECS Task Role by following the below steps:
    * Go to the **IAM** console and select **Roles** 
    * Click the **Create Role**.
    * On the **Name, review, and create** screen, give a meaningful name to the role.
    * Select the trusted entity type.
    * Choose **Elastic Container Service** as **Service or use case**.
    * Select **Elastic Container Service Task** for **Use case**.
    * On the **Add permissions** screen, search the policy name you created above and add it to the role. Similarly, search for the `SecretsManagerReadWrite` policy and add it to the role.
    
* **External MongoDB Instance** - Ensure you can access an external MongoDB instance hosting MongoDB V5.0 or later. You will not be able to use the built-in MongoDB with EFS as it will cause the Appsmith instance to crash.

## Install Appsmith
Follow the below steps to install Appsmith:

### Create ECS cluster

1. Go to Classic Amazon Web Console and click **Clusters** on the sidebar, and click **Create Cluster**.
  <figure>
    <img src="/img/aws-ecs-ec2-classic-web-console.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Create Cluster using Classic Amazon Web Console" />
    <figcaption align="center"><i>Create Cluster using Classic Amazon Web Console</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

2. Choose **Networking only** as the cluster template and click the **Next step** button.
3. Give a meaningful name to the **Cluster name** field.
4. Scroll down to the **CloudWatch Container Insights** section, and tick the **Enable container insights** checkbox.
5. Click the **Create** button. You will see a launch status screen as shown below:

 <figure>
    <img src="/img/aws_ecs_fargate_create_cluster_status.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="A launch status screen shows the ECS Cluster status" />
    <figcaption align="center"><i>A launch status screen shows the ECS Cluster status</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

6. Click the **View cluster** button to see your cluster.

### Create task and container definitions

Follow these steps to create task and container definitions for your cluster:

1. Click **Task Definitions** from the sidebar, and click **Create new Task Definition**.
2. Select **Fargate** as launch type compatibility, and click the **Next step** button.
3. Give a desired name to **Task definition Name**.
4. Select the **Task role** that you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.
5. Select the default Network mode.
6. Set Linux for the **Operating system family**.
7. Select the **Create new role** option for **Task Execution Role**.
8. Set the required task size for memory & CPU (you need at least 2vCPU and 4 GB Memory).
9. Scroll down to the **Volumes** section and add a new volume as shown below:
    * **Name** - Give name as `appsmith_stack`.
    * **Volume type** - EFS.
    * **File System ID** - EFS file system created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. 
    * Keep the default values for the remaining fields.
    * Click **Add** button.
10. Scroll up to configure the Appsmith container. <a id="container-definition-ecs"></a>
    * Click the **Add container** button.
    * In the **STANDARD** section, provide details as below:
        - **Container Name** - Give a meaningful name to the container.
        - **Image** - `appsmith/appsmith-ee`.
        - **Port mappings** - Add port mappings for ports 80 and 443. Keep the protocol as `tcp`.
    * Click the **Advanced container configuration**, and add details as below:
        * In the **HEALTH** section, configure the health check as below:
            * Command: `CMD-SHELL, curl http://localhost/api/v1/health`
            * Interval: 10 seconds
            * Timeout : 5 seconds
            * Start periods: 160 seconds
            * Retries: 3
        * In the **ENVIRONMENT** section, set the below variables in the **Environment variables** subsection:
            * `APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD`: Add a password to encrypt all credentials in the database. It's recommended to use a random password.
            * `APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT`: Use encryption salt to encrypt all credentials in the database. It's recommended to use a random password.
            * `APPSMITH_SUPERVISOR_PASSWORD` : Password to access the supervisor console to watch the processes in the Appsmith container. It's recommended to use a random password.
            * `APPSMITH_MONGODB_URI` : Enter the URI of the external MongoDB (v5.0 or later) instance.
            * `APPSMITH_ENABLE_EMBEDDED_DB` to `0`. This disables embedded mock databases on EFS volume.
        * In the **STORAGE AND LOGGING** section, provide details as below for **Mount points**:
            * **Source volume** - `appsmith_stack` 
            * **Container path** - `/appsmith-stacks`
    * Check the **Auto-configure CloudWatch Logs** checkbox for **Log configuration**.
    * Click **Add** button. You will see the container name available under **Container definitions**.
11. Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the **Create** button.

<figure>
    <img src="/img/aws_ecs_fargate_create_task_def_status.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="A launch status screen shows the task definition status" />
    <figcaption align="center"><i>A launch status screen shows the task definition status</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

12. Click the **View task definition** button to see your task definition.

### Create and run ECS service

Follow these steps to create and run an ECS service:

1.  Go to the cluster dashboard and click the ECS cluster name that you created in [Create ECS Cluster](#create-ecs-cluster) section.
2. On the cluster details, click **Create** button under the **Services** tab.
3. On the **Configure the Service** screen, add below details:
    * **Launch Type** - Select Fargate.
    * **Task Definition** - Select the task definition you created in [Create task and container definitions](#create-task-and-container-definitions) with the latest revision.
    * **Cluster** - Select the cluster you created in [Create ECS Cluster](#create-ecs-cluster).
    * **Service name** - Give a meaningful name to your service.
    * **Service type** - Select Replica.
    * **Number of Tasks** - Set as 1.
    * Keep the default selection for other properties and click the **Next step** button.
4. On the **Configure the Network** screen, add below details:
    * Select the VPC and the subnets.
    * Select the security group you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section, and add the security group with NFS access.
    * Select the Application Load Balancer you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.
        * Port 80 Configuration
           * Choose the listener for port 80 and click the **Add to the load balancer** button.
           * **Production listener port** - `create new`, and add the port as 80.
           * **Production listener protocol** - Set it to `HTTP`.
           * **Target group** - Select `create new`, and provide a meaningful name to the target group.
           * **Target group protocol** - Set it to `HTTP`.
           * **Health check path** - Set it to `/api/v1/health`.
           * Click the **Next step** button.
        * Port 80 Configuration
           * Choose the listener for port 443 and click the **Add to the load balancer** button.
           * **Production listener port** - `create new`, and add the port as 443.
           * **Production listener protocol** - Set it to `HTTPS`.
           * **Target group** - Select `create new`, and provide a meaningful name to the target group.
           * **Target group protocol** - Set it to `HTTP`.
           * **Health check path** - Set it to `/api/v1/health`.
           * Click the **Next step** button.
    * Click the **Next step** button.
5. On the **Set Auto Scaling** screen, keep the default selection and click the **Next step** button.
6. Review the details and click **Create Service**. 
7. Get the Domain Name or public IP of your ALB to access Appsmith.
8. Fill in your details to create an administrator account.
9. Once you've created an account, you can either start with the free plan or activate your instance with a license key. If you want to generate a license key, sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) to create one, and then proceed to activate your instance using the newly generated license key.

## Connect to Fargate instance

1. Enable the `exec` on the Fargate instance with:

  ```bash
    aws ecs update-service --cluster <CLUSTER_NAME>  --service <SERVICE_NAME> --region <REGION> --enable-execute-command --force-new-deployment
  ``` 
The `exec` command will be available once the new deployment is active.
2. Exec into the Fargate Appsmith instance with:
    ```bash
    aws ecs execute-command --cluster <Cluster Name>
    --task <Task ID>\
    --container appsmith \
    --interactive \
    --command "bash"
    ```
3. Once you can access the bash shell, you can execute all commands available in the Appsmith container, like [appsmithctl](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl).

## Troubleshooting

Some common errors that you may face during installation:

- [Unable to access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith)
- [Containers failed to restart](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#containers-failed-to-start)

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading

* [Configuring ECS Installations](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#configure-ecs-installations)
* [Managing the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)
* [Tutorials](/getting-started/tutorials/)

Commit message:

chore: add section (#1869)
for all installation guides

## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ecs-on-fargate.md, after:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on the ECS cluster using Fargate.
---

# AWS ECS on Fargate

This page provides steps to install Appsmith on AWS ECS using Fargate.

## Prerequisites

* **Amazon Web Services (AWS) account** - If you don't have one, [Create an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).
* **Application Load Balancer (ALB)** - If you already have an ALB, follow these steps:
    * Provision an [Application Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/create-application-load-balancer.html#configure-load-balancer), and ensure that port 80 and 443 are available to configure ECS service.
    * Add or create a security group with ports 80 and 443 accessible. 
* **Amazon Elastic File System (EFS)** - If you haven't set up an EFS yet, follow these steps:
    * Go to **AWS EFS** and click the **Create file system** button.
    * Give a meaningful name to your file system and configure VPC. 
    * Refresh the file system listing, and select the file system you created above.
    * Go to the **Network** tab, and click **Manage** button on the right side.
    * Select the security group with port `2049` accessible. If you don't have one:
        * [Create a Security Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#creating-security-group)
        * To enable port access, [add an inbound rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#adding-security-group-rule) for the port `2049` for NFS access to the security group you created above.
        * Attach the security group to the EFS mount target.
* **ECS Exec Policy** - Set up a policy to allow ECS Exec capability by following these steps:
    * Go to the **IAM** console and select **Policies**.
    * Click **Create Policy**.
    * On **Specify Permissions** screen, choose JSON for policy editor, and update the policy with the below details:

        ```javascript
        {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "ssmmessages:CreateControlChannel",
                        "ssmmessages:CreateDataChannel",
                        "ssmmessages:OpenControlChannel",
                        "ssmmessages:OpenDataChannel"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "*"
                }
                ]
        }
        ```
    - Click the **Next** button.
    - On **Review and Create** screen, give a meaningful name to your policy and click the **Create Policy** button. The new policy will be available in the list of policies.
* **ECS Task Role** - Set up an ECS Task Role by following the below steps:
    * Go to the **IAM** console and select **Roles** 
    * Click the **Create Role**.
    * On the **Name, review, and create** screen, give a meaningful name to the role.
    * Select the trusted entity type.
    * Choose **Elastic Container Service** as **Service or use case**.
    * Select **Elastic Container Service Task** for **Use case**.
    * On the **Add permissions** screen, search the policy name you created above and add it to the role. Similarly, search for the `SecretsManagerReadWrite` policy and add it to the role.
    
* **External MongoDB Instance** - Ensure you can access an external MongoDB instance hosting MongoDB V5.0 or later. You will not be able to use the built-in MongoDB with EFS as it will cause the Appsmith instance to crash.

## Install Appsmith
Follow the below steps to install Appsmith:

### Create ECS cluster

1. Go to Classic Amazon Web Console and click **Clusters** on the sidebar, and click **Create Cluster**.
  <figure>
    <img src="/img/aws-ecs-ec2-classic-web-console.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Create Cluster using Classic Amazon Web Console" />
    <figcaption align="center"><i>Create Cluster using Classic Amazon Web Console</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

2. Choose **Networking only** as the cluster template and click the **Next step** button.
3. Give a meaningful name to the **Cluster name** field.
4. Scroll down to the **CloudWatch Container Insights** section, and tick the **Enable container insights** checkbox.
5. Click the **Create** button. You will see a launch status screen as shown below:

 <figure>
    <img src="/img/aws_ecs_fargate_create_cluster_status.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="A launch status screen shows the ECS Cluster status" />
    <figcaption align="center"><i>A launch status screen shows the ECS Cluster status</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

6. Click the **View cluster** button to see your cluster.

### Create task and container definitions

Follow these steps to create task and container definitions for your cluster:

1. Click **Task Definitions** from the sidebar, and click **Create new Task Definition**.
2. Select **Fargate** as launch type compatibility, and click the **Next step** button.
3. Give a desired name to **Task definition Name**.
4. Select the **Task role** that you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.
5. Select the default Network mode.
6. Set Linux for the **Operating system family**.
7. Select the **Create new role** option for **Task Execution Role**.
8. Set the required task size for memory & CPU (you need at least 2vCPU and 4 GB Memory).
9. Scroll down to the **Volumes** section and add a new volume as shown below:
    * **Name** - Give name as `appsmith_stack`.
    * **Volume type** - EFS.
    * **File System ID** - EFS file system created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. 
    * Keep the default values for the remaining fields.
    * Click **Add** button.
10. Scroll up to configure the Appsmith container. <a id="container-definition-ecs"></a>
    * Click the **Add container** button.
    * In the **STANDARD** section, provide details as below:
        - **Container Name** - Give a meaningful name to the container.
        - **Image** - `appsmith/appsmith-ee`.
        - **Port mappings** - Add port mappings for ports 80 and 443. Keep the protocol as `tcp`.
    * Click the **Advanced container configuration**, and add details as below:
        * In the **HEALTH** section, configure the health check as below:
            * Command: `CMD-SHELL, curl http://localhost/api/v1/health`
            * Interval: 10 seconds
            * Timeout : 5 seconds
            * Start periods: 160 seconds
            * Retries: 3
        * In the **ENVIRONMENT** section, set the below variables in the **Environment variables** subsection:
            * `APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD`: Add a password to encrypt all credentials in the database. It's recommended to use a random password.
            * `APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT`: Use encryption salt to encrypt all credentials in the database. It's recommended to use a random password.
            * `APPSMITH_SUPERVISOR_PASSWORD` : Password to access the supervisor console to watch the processes in the Appsmith container. It's recommended to use a random password.
            * `APPSMITH_MONGODB_URI` : Enter the URI of the external MongoDB (v5.0 or later) instance.
            * `APPSMITH_ENABLE_EMBEDDED_DB` to `0`. This disables embedded mock databases on EFS volume.
        * In the **STORAGE AND LOGGING** section, provide details as below for **Mount points**:
            * **Source volume** - `appsmith_stack` 
            * **Container path** - `/appsmith-stacks`
    * Check the **Auto-configure CloudWatch Logs** checkbox for **Log configuration**.
    * Click **Add** button. You will see the container name available under **Container definitions**.
11. Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the **Create** button.

<figure>
    <img src="/img/aws_ecs_fargate_create_task_def_status.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="A launch status screen shows the task definition status" />
    <figcaption align="center"><i>A launch status screen shows the task definition status</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

12. Click the **View task definition** button to see your task definition.

### Create and run ECS service

Follow these steps to create and run an ECS service:

1.  Go to the cluster dashboard and click the ECS cluster name that you created in [Create ECS Cluster](#create-ecs-cluster) section.
2. On the cluster details, click **Create** button under the **Services** tab.
3. On the **Configure the Service** screen, add below details:
    * **Launch Type** - Select Fargate.
    * **Task Definition** - Select the task definition you created in [Create task and container definitions](#create-task-and-container-definitions) with the latest revision.
    * **Cluster** - Select the cluster you created in [Create ECS Cluster](#create-ecs-cluster).
    * **Service name** - Give a meaningful name to your service.
    * **Service type** - Select Replica.
    * **Number of Tasks** - Set as 1.
    * Keep the default selection for other properties and click the **Next step** button.
4. On the **Configure the Network** screen, add below details:
    * Select the VPC and the subnets.
    * Select the security group you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section, and add the security group with NFS access.
    * Select the Application Load Balancer you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.
        * Port 80 Configuration
           * Choose the listener for port 80 and click the **Add to the load balancer** button.
           * **Production listener port** - `create new`, and add the port as 80.
           * **Production listener protocol** - Set it to `HTTP`.
           * **Target group** - Select `create new`, and provide a meaningful name to the target group.
           * **Target group protocol** - Set it to `HTTP`.
           * **Health check path** - Set it to `/api/v1/health`.
           * Click the **Next step** button.
        * Port 80 Configuration
           * Choose the listener for port 443 and click the **Add to the load balancer** button.
           * **Production listener port** - `create new`, and add the port as 443.
           * **Production listener protocol** - Set it to `HTTPS`.
           * **Target group** - Select `create new`, and provide a meaningful name to the target group.
           * **Target group protocol** - Set it to `HTTP`.
           * **Health check path** - Set it to `/api/v1/health`.
           * Click the **Next step** button.
    * Click the **Next step** button.
5. On the **Set Auto Scaling** screen, keep the default selection and click the **Next step** button.
6. Review the details and click **Create Service**. 
7. Get the Domain Name or public IP of your ALB to access Appsmith.
8. Fill in your details to create an administrator account.
9. Once you've created an account, you can either start with the free plan or activate your instance with a license key. If you want to generate a license key, sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) to create one, and then proceed to activate your instance using the newly generated license key.

## Connect to Fargate instance

1. Enable the `exec` on the Fargate instance with:

  ```bash
    aws ecs update-service --cluster <CLUSTER_NAME>  --service <SERVICE_NAME> --region <REGION> --enable-execute-command --force-new-deployment
  ``` 
The `exec` command will be available once the new deployment is active.
2. Exec into the Fargate Appsmith instance with:
    ```bash
    aws ecs execute-command --cluster <Cluster Name>
    --task <Task ID>\
    --container appsmith \
    --interactive \
    --command "bash"
    ```
3. Once you can access the bash shell, you can execute all commands available in the Appsmith container, like [appsmithctl](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/appsmithctl).

## Install Appsmith Community

To install the Appsmith open source edition (Appsmith Community), replace `appsmith-ee` with `appsmith-ce` in the [container definition](#container-definition-ecs) on this page.

## Troubleshooting

Some common errors that you may face during installation:

- [Unable to access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith)
- [Containers failed to restart](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#containers-failed-to-start)

If you continue to face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

## Further reading

* [Configuring ECS Installations](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration#configure-ecs-installations)
* [Managing the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)
* [Tutorials](/getting-started/tutorials/)
