website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/azure-aci.md, before:

---

description: Deploy Appsmith on Azure Container Instance Service
sidebar_position: 4
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Azure Container Instance
Azure Container Instances (ACI) is a simple and efficient way to run containers in the cloud. This document guides you through launching an ACI instance and running an Appsmith container. The data persists in Azure Storage Account File Share.

:::note 
Azure only supports CIFS file shares and doesn't support NFS file shares.
:::

## Prerequisites​

Before launching an ACI instance, you need to have an Azure subscription and have the Azure CLI installed on your machine. 

* [Azure Subscription](https://azure.com/free) - If you don't have an Azure subscription, you can sign up for a free trial.
* [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure).

## Configure variables
Update the following values starting with 'my' where necessary, and enter them in your shell/terminal.
```bash
resourceGroupName="myResourceGroup"
aciName="myAppsmithACI"
storageAccountName="mystorageaccount$RANDOM"
aciLocation="southindia"  
fileShareName="myFileShareName"
dnsNameLabel="myDNSLabel"
```
### Create a resource group (optional)
You can skip this step if you want to use an existing resource group.
```bash
az group create --name $resourceGroupName --location $aciLocation
```

### Create a storage account (optional)
You can skip this step if you want to use an existing storage account.
```bash
az storage account create --resource-group $resourceGroupName --name $storageAccountName --location $aciLocation --sku Standard_LRS
```
### Get the storage account key
```bash
storageAccountKey=$(az storage account keys list --resource-group $resourceGroupName --account-name $storageAccountName --query "[0].value"  --output tsv)
```

### Create a file share
```bash
az storage share create --name $fileShareName --account-name $storageAccountName --account-key $storageAccountKey
```

## Install Appsmith

* Create an Azure container instance for Appsmith with: <a id="container-instance-config"></a>

	```bash
	az container create \
	--resource-group $resourceGroupName \
		--name $aciName \
		--image appsmith/appsmith-ee \
		--ip-address public \
		--dns-name-label $dnsNameLabel \
		--ports 80 443 \
		--cpu 2 \
		--memory 4 \
		--azure-file-volume-account-name $storageAccountName \
		--azure-file-volume-account-key $storageAccountKey \
		--azure-file-volume-share-name $fileShareName \
		--azure-file-volume-mount-path "/appsmith-stacks/" \
	```

## Troubleshooting
If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

### See also

* [Configuring Self-Hosted Instances](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration)
* [Managing the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)

Commit message:

chore: add section (#1869)
for all installation guides

## Checklist
I have:
- [ ] run the content through Grammarly
- [ ] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [ ] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [ ] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [ ] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [ ] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [ ] added images only when necessary
- [ ] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [ ] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [ ] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [ ] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [ ] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [ ] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [ ] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/azure-aci.md, after:

---

description: Deploy Appsmith on Azure Container Instance Service
sidebar_position: 4
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Azure Container Instance
Azure Container Instances (ACI) is a simple and efficient way to run containers in the cloud. This document guides you through launching an ACI instance and running an Appsmith container. The data persists in Azure Storage Account File Share.

:::note 
Azure only supports CIFS file shares and doesn't support NFS file shares.
:::

## Prerequisites​

Before launching an ACI instance, you need to have an Azure subscription and have the Azure CLI installed on your machine. 

* [Azure Subscription](https://azure.com/free) - If you don't have an Azure subscription, you can sign up for a free trial.
* [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure).

## Configure variables
Update the following values starting with 'my' where necessary, and enter them in your shell/terminal.
```bash
resourceGroupName="myResourceGroup"
aciName="myAppsmithACI"
storageAccountName="mystorageaccount$RANDOM"
aciLocation="southindia"  
fileShareName="myFileShareName"
dnsNameLabel="myDNSLabel"
```
### Create a resource group (optional)
You can skip this step if you want to use an existing resource group.
```bash
az group create --name $resourceGroupName --location $aciLocation
```

### Create a storage account (optional)
You can skip this step if you want to use an existing storage account.
```bash
az storage account create --resource-group $resourceGroupName --name $storageAccountName --location $aciLocation --sku Standard_LRS
```
### Get the storage account key
```bash
storageAccountKey=$(az storage account keys list --resource-group $resourceGroupName --account-name $storageAccountName --query "[0].value"  --output tsv)
```

### Create a file share
```bash
az storage share create --name $fileShareName --account-name $storageAccountName --account-key $storageAccountKey
```

## Install Appsmith

* Create an Azure container instance for Appsmith with: <a id="container-instance-config"></a>

	```bash
	az container create \
	--resource-group $resourceGroupName \
		--name $aciName \
		--image appsmith/appsmith-ee \
		--ip-address public \
		--dns-name-label $dnsNameLabel \
		--ports 80 443 \
		--cpu 2 \
		--memory 4 \
		--azure-file-volume-account-name $storageAccountName \
		--azure-file-volume-account-key $storageAccountKey \
		--azure-file-volume-share-name $fileShareName \
		--azure-file-volume-mount-path "/appsmith-stacks/" \
	```
	
## Install Appsmith Community

To install the Appsmith open source edition (Appsmith Community), replace `appsmith-ee` with `appsmith-ce` while creating an [Azure container instance](#container-instance-config) file on this page.

## Troubleshooting
If you face issues, contact the support team using the chat widget at the bottom right of this page.

### See also

* [Configuring Self-Hosted Instances](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration)
* [Managing the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management)
