website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run.mdx, before:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on Google Cloud Run.
---

# Google Cloud Run
This guide shows you how to deploy Appsmith on Google Cloud Run.

## Prerequisites

- A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account.
- An external MongoDB instance for Appsmith data storage - [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database) is recommended.

## Before you begin

1. In the [Google Cloud console](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector2/home/dashboard
), select or create a Google Cloud project. For more information about creating projects, see [Create Google Cloud project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects).
2. Enable the [Cloud Filestore API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/file.googleapis.com).
3. Enable the [Serverless VPC Access API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/google/vpcaccess.googleapis.com).

## Create a Filestore instance

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Filestore instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/filestore/instances) page.

2. Click **Create Instance** and configure the instance as follows:
    - Provide a name in the **Instance ID** box.
    - Set **Instance type** to **Basic**.
    - Set **Storage type** to **HDD**.
    - Set **VPC network** to **default**.
    - Provide a name in the **Configure your file share** box.
    - Set **Allocated IP range** to **Use an automatically allocated IP range**.
    - Set **Access controls** to **Grant access to all clients on the VPC network**.

3. Click **Create**.

4. When the new instance creation is complete, note down the **File share name** and **IP address** to use later when mounting the Filestore instance in Cloud Run container.  

<figure>
        <img src="/img/file-share-name-and-ip-address.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="File share name and IP address of the filestore instance"/>
        <figcaption align = "center"><i>File share name and IP address of the filestore instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create a Serverless VPC Access connector

1. Go to the [Serverless VPC Access](https://console.cloud.google.com/networking/connectors) overview page.

2. Click **Create connector**.

3. In the **Name** field, enter a name for your connector.

4. In the **Network** field, select the **default** option.

5. Click the **Subnet** menu. Select **Custom IP range** from the menu.

6. In the **IP range** field, enter the first address in an unreserved CIDR /28 internal IP range. This IP range must not overlap with any existing IP address reservations in your VPC network. For example, `10.8.0.0 (/28)` will work in most new projects.

7. A green check mark will appear next to the connector's name when it is ready to use.

## Deploy Appsmith on Cloud Run

1. Go to [Cloud Run](https://console.cloud.google.com/run).

2. Click **Create service**.

3. In the form, select **Deploy one revision from an existing container image**.
    - In the **Container image URL**, enter `docker.io/appsmith/appsmith-ce`.

4. Enter a desired name in the **Service name** field.

5. Set **CPU allocation and pricing** to **CPU is always allocated**.

6. Under **Autoscaling**:
    - Set **Minimum number of instances** to `1`.
    - Select **All** to allow direct access to your service from the Internet.

7. Under **Authentication**, select **Allow unauthenticated invocations**.

8. Click **Container, Networking, Security** to expand the service configuration page. 

9. Click the **Container** tab.
    - In the **Container port** box, enter `80` to specify the port you want requests to be sent to.
    - Under **Capacity**:
        - Set the memory size to **4 GiB** in the **Memory** dropdown list. 
        - Set the CPU limit as **2** in the **CPU** dropdown list.
    - Under **Execution environment**, select **Second generation**.
    - Under **Environment variables**, click **Add Variable**. 
    - Specify values in the **Name** and **Value** text boxes as shown below: 

    | Name | Value |
    |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
    | **FILESTORE_IP_ADDRESS** | The IP address you noted down in step 4 of [Create a Filestore instance](#create-a-filestore-instance). |
    | **FILE_SHARE_NAME** | The file share name you noted down in step 4 of [Create a Filestore instance](#create-a-filestore-instance). |
    | **APPSMITH_MONGODB_URI** | Specify the connection string of the external MongoDB instance required for Appsmith data storage. <br/> <i>Format</i>: <br/>`mongodb://<USERNAME>:<PASSWORD>@<HOST>:<PORT>/?authSource=<DATABASE_NAME>&replicaSet=<REPLICA_SET_NAME>[&options]`|

10. Click the **Networking** tab.
    - In the **VPC Network** field, choose the name of the *Serverless VPC Access connector* you created in the preceding [section](#create-a-serverless-vpc-access-connector).
    - Keep the default **Route only requests to private IPs through the VPC connector** option.

11. Click the **Security** tab. Note that Cloud Run services or jobs run as the **Compute Engine default service account**.

12. Click the **Create** button at the bottom of the page to deploy the image to Cloud Run and wait for the deployment to finish. A green check mark will appear next to the deployed service name when it is ready.

13. Click the **Logs** tab to verify everything is working fine. Wait a few minutes until you see the message `Appsmith is running` in the logs.

14. Click the displayed URL link to open the unique and stable endpoint of the Appsmith instance. 

<figure>
  <img src="/img/deployed-service-url-cloud-run.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run</i></figcaption>
</figure>

15. Enter the details on the signup form to create an Appsmith account.

## Further reading

[Instance Configuration](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/) <br/>
[Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)

Commit message:

chore: Add redis and encryption related params for cloudrun

website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/google-cloud-run.mdx, after:

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on Google Cloud Run.
---

# Google Cloud Run
This guide shows you how to deploy Appsmith on Google Cloud Run.

## Prerequisites

- A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account.
- An external MongoDB instance for Appsmith data storage - [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database) is recommended.

## Before you begin

1. In the [Google Cloud console](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector2/home/dashboard
), select or create a Google Cloud project. For more information about creating projects, see [Create Google Cloud project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects).
2. Enable the [Cloud Filestore API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/file.googleapis.com).
3. Enable the [Serverless VPC Access API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/google/vpcaccess.googleapis.com).

## Create a Filestore instance

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Filestore instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/filestore/instances) page.

2. Click **Create Instance** and configure the instance as follows:
    - Provide a name in the **Instance ID** box.
    - Set **Instance type** to **Basic**.
    - Set **Storage type** to **HDD**.
    - Set **VPC network** to **default**.
    - Provide a name in the **Configure your file share** box.
    - Set **Allocated IP range** to **Use an automatically allocated IP range**.
    - Set **Access controls** to **Grant access to all clients on the VPC network**.

3. Click **Create**.

4. When the new instance creation is complete, note down the **File share name** and **IP address** to use later when mounting the Filestore instance in Cloud Run container.  

<figure>
        <img src="/img/file-share-name-and-ip-address.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="File share name and IP address of the filestore instance"/>
        <figcaption align = "center"><i>File share name and IP address of the filestore instance</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Create a Serverless VPC Access connector

1. Go to the [Serverless VPC Access](https://console.cloud.google.com/networking/connectors) overview page.

2. Click **Create connector**.

3. In the **Name** field, enter a name for your connector.

4. In the **Network** field, select the **default** option.

5. Click the **Subnet** menu. Select **Custom IP range** from the menu.

6. In the **IP range** field, enter the first address in an unreserved CIDR /28 internal IP range. This IP range must not overlap with any existing IP address reservations in your VPC network. For example, `10.8.0.0 (/28)` will work in most new projects.

7. A green check mark will appear next to the connector's name when it is ready to use.

## Deploy Appsmith on Cloud Run

1. Go to [Cloud Run](https://console.cloud.google.com/run).

2. Click **Create service**.

3. In the form, select **Deploy one revision from an existing container image**.
    - In the **Container image URL**, enter `docker.io/appsmith/appsmith-ce`.

4. Enter a desired name in the **Service name** field.

5. Set **CPU allocation and pricing** to **CPU is always allocated**.

6. Under **Autoscaling**:
    - Set **Minimum number of instances** to `1`.
    - Select **All** to allow direct access to your service from the Internet.

7. You need to create a Redis instance to manage traffic among revisions
    - Go to [Memorystore](https://console.cloud.google.com/memorystore/redis/instances)
    - Create a Memorystore instance
        - In the instanceid enter `instanceid`
        - Choose **Tier Selection**
            - Basic (No automatic failover)
            - Standard (Automatically failover and High availability)
        - In the **Capacity** box, enter `10`
        - In the **Region** box, enter `region` of choice
        - In the **Zone** box, enter `zone` of choice
        - In the **Read Replicas** box, enter `2 Read Replicas`
        - In the **Set up connection** box, enter `default`
        - In the **Configuration** box, enter `6.x`
    - Once the Memorystore instance is ready make a note of **Primary Endpoint**.

8. Under **Authentication**, select **Allow unauthenticated invocations**.

9. Click **Container, Networking, Security** to expand the service configuration page.

10. Click the **Container** tab.
    - In the **Container port** box, enter `80` to specify the port you want requests to be sent to.
    - Under **Capacity**:
        - Set the memory size to **4 GiB** in the **Memory** dropdown list. 
        - Set the CPU limit as **2** in the **CPU** dropdown list.
    - Under **Execution environment**, select **Second generation**.
    - Under **Environment variables**, click **Add Variable**. 
    - Specify values in the **Name** and **Value** text boxes as shown below: 

    | Name | Value |
    |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
    | **FILESTORE_IP_ADDRESS** | The IP address you noted down in step 4 of [Create a Filestore instance](#create-a-filestore-instance). |
    | **FILE_SHARE_NAME** | The file share name you noted down in step 4 of [Create a Filestore instance](#create-a-filestore-instance). |
    | **APPSMITH_MONGODB_URI** | Specify the connection string of the external MongoDB instance required for Appsmith data storage. <br/> <i>Format</i>: <br/>`mongodb://<USERNAME>:<PASSWORD>@<HOST>:<PORT>/?authSource=<DATABASE_NAME>&replicaSet=<REPLICA_SET_NAME>[&options]`|
    | **APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT** | Specify a encryption salt to encrypt values in database. <br/> <i>Format</i>: <br/>` Encryption Salt`|
    | **APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD** | Specify a encryption password to encrypt values in database. <br/> <i>Format</i>:<br/>` Encryption Password`|
    | **APPSMITH_REDIS_URL** | Specify the connection string of the external Redis instance required to maintain session and managing traffic. <br/> <i>Format</i>: <br/>`redis://<HOST>:<PORT>`|


11. Click the **Networking** tab.
    - In the **VPC Network** field, choose the name of the *Serverless VPC Access connector* you created in the preceding [section](#create-a-serverless-vpc-access-connector).
    - Keep the default **Route only requests to private IPs through the VPC connector** option.

12. Click the **Security** tab. Note that Cloud Run services or jobs run as the **Compute Engine default service account**.

13. Click the **Create** button at the bottom of the page to deploy the image to Cloud Run and wait for the deployment to finish. A green check mark will appear next to the deployed service name when it is ready.

14. Click the **Logs** tab to verify everything is working fine. Wait a few minutes until you see the message `Appsmith is running` in the logs.

15. Click the displayed URL link to open the unique and stable endpoint of the Appsmith instance.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/deployed-service-url-cloud-run.png" style= {{width:"100%", height:"auto"}} alt="URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run"/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>URL of Appsmith deployed on Cloud Run</i></figcaption>
</figure>

16. Enter the details on the signup form to create an Appsmith account.

## Further reading

[Instance Configuration](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/) <br/>
[Instance Management](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)
