website/docs/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database.md, before:

# Queries

The information you want to present in any application is typically spread over numerous tables in a datasource. A query can collect data from different tables/ documents and pull it together for display. Using a query, you can insert, update, or remove data from a datasource, bind the data to a widget, and more.

:::info
Appsmith uses Queries to collectively refer to APIs or Database queries that perform CRUD operations.
:::

To write and execute queries, you should understand the basics of [connecting to a Database](/connect-data/reference/) or [Connecting to an API](/connect-data/reference/authenticated-api).  You can create queries from a datasource using the Appsmith query editor.


## Create a query

This section talks about creating a DB query in Appsmith. To learn about API queries, see [REST API](/connect-data/reference/rest-api).

Follow the below steps to create a database query in the query editor:

* Go to **Datasources → +** to create a **new query** or select an **existing datasource** to which you wish to add a query.


* Choose the connected datasource and click **+ New Query**. You can also choose to add a new query by navigating to **Explorer** >> Scroll down to **Queries/JS** >> Click plus (**+**) sign >> Select the name `<DATASOURCE_NAME> Query` (users query).


* The Appsmith query editor opens up when you create a new query or select an existing query. You can write the queries in the query editor and tweak the [query settings](/connect-data/reference/query-settings) from the settings tab.

![Appsmith Query Editor](/img/query_editor.png)

* The query is created with a default name. It's recommended you rename it for readability and access. The query name helps access the query results. A query must have a **unique** and meaningful name that acts as an identifier. You can access the various properties of the query and its data using the query name.

:::info
[JavaScript keywords](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js\_reserved.asp) and [the window object methods and properties](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/obj\_window.asp) aren't valid as query names.
:::

* Write your query in the syntax valid for your [database type](/connect-data/reference/).

Queries are automatically saved, so you never lose your work. These changes are reflected in your *published* application only after you deploy. You can access a query's result *only* from the page it's a part of. To use a query on another page, click the context menu next to the query name and clone it.

## Run a query

Click the `Run` button or hit `cmd + enter` to execute a query. You'll see the results in the Response tab if the query succeeds.

 <VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="0xA7ChO7Rlk" title="Running a Query" caption="Running a Query"/>  

Alternatively, you can use the [run](/reference/appsmith-framework/query-object#run) function to execute a query anywhere in Appsmith.

All query results are stored in the [data](/reference/appsmith-framework/query-object#data) property of the [query object](/reference/appsmith-framework/query-object). It's immutable and can't be changed. You can access it using JavaScript, as shown in the code snippet below:

```javascript
{{ Query1.data }}
```

Queries fetch data in an array of objects where each object is a row, and each key in the object is a column. However, each widget property supports a specific data type. You can [transform the data](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/displaying-data-read#transform-data) from the query response to match the expected data structure in the property.

## Debug errors

When a query fails, Appsmith commonly shows a notification stating: `<query_name> action returned an error response `.


To see the error message returned by the datasource in response to your query, look for the failed query in the [debugger](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/#using-the-linter-and-debugger), or access it in code with `<query_name>.data`.


## Use queries in applications

Once you have successfully run a Query, you can use it in your application to:

* [Display Data from a query](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/displaying-data-read) - Bind the query results to a widget to display the data.
* [Capture Data](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/capturing-data-write) - Capture the user input entered in a widget that can be referenced using JavaScript.
* Run multiple queries by separating the run statements with a `;`. Check out the sample app that shows [how to run multiple queries](https://app.appsmith.com/applications/61e4fd98eb0501052b9fc476/pages/62ab7a7e84b91337251afd40) on a button click.
* Pass parameters to a query in the run() function and access these parameters in the query. Check out the sample app that shows [how to pass parameters to the Query.run() function](https://app.appsmith.com/applications/61e4fd98eb0501052b9fc476/pages/628e64d47901344ba8d2a584).

## Troubleshooting
Do you need help with queries? Check out the [Query troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/query-errors) for the most common errors or reach out on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/rBTTVJp) to get support or ask questions on the [community forum](https://community.appsmith.com/).

Commit message:

fix: Added mention of Debug mode (#1432)
Adds a little subheading that describes how to continue seeing App
errors while in view mode.

## Checklist
I have:
- [x] run the content through Grammarly
- [x] linked to sample apps when relevant
- [x] added the meta description for each page in the PR
- [x] minimized the callouts and added only when necessary
- [x] added the `queryString` parameter to the Tabs (if used)
- [x] masked PII in images. For example, login credentials, account
details, and more
- [x] added images only when necessary
- [x] deleted the images that are no longer used for the updated pages
in the PR
- [x] followed the image file naming convention while renaming or adding
new images. (Use lowercase letters, dashes between words, and be as
descriptive as possible)
- [x] used the `<figure/>` tag instead of a markdown representation for
images
- [x] added the `<figcaption/>` tag to add a caption to the image
- [x] added the `alt` attribute in the `<img/>` tag
- [x] verified and updated the cross-references or created redirect
rules for the changed or removed content
- [x] reviewed and applied the style changes for UI formatting. For
example, Bold the UI elements(Buttons on screen) used in the doc.

---------

Co-authored-by: Dancia <32227135+danciaclara@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database.md, after:

# Queries

The information you want to present in any application is typically spread over numerous tables in a datasource. A query can collect data from different tables/ documents and pull it together for display. Using a query, you can insert, update, or remove data from a datasource, bind the data to a widget, and more.

:::info
Appsmith uses Queries to collectively refer to APIs or Database queries that perform CRUD operations.
:::

To write and execute queries, you should understand the basics of [connecting to a Database](/connect-data/reference/) or [Connecting to an API](/connect-data/reference/authenticated-api).  You can create queries from a datasource using the Appsmith query editor.


## Create a query

This section talks about creating a DB query in Appsmith. To learn about API queries, see [REST API](/connect-data/reference/rest-api).

Follow the below steps to create a database query in the query editor:

* Go to **Datasources → +** to create a **new query** or select an **existing datasource** to which you wish to add a query.


* Choose the connected datasource and click **+ New Query**. You can also choose to add a new query by navigating to **Explorer** >> Scroll down to **Queries/JS** >> Click plus (**+**) sign >> Select the name `<DATASOURCE_NAME> Query` (users query).


* The Appsmith query editor opens up when you create a new query or select an existing query. You can write the queries in the query editor and tweak the [query settings](/connect-data/reference/query-settings) from the settings tab.

![Appsmith Query Editor](/img/query_editor.png)

* The query is created with a default name. It's recommended you rename it for readability and access. The query name helps access the query results. A query must have a **unique** and meaningful name that acts as an identifier. You can access the various properties of the query and its data using the query name.

:::info
[JavaScript keywords](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js\_reserved.asp) and [the window object methods and properties](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/obj\_window.asp) aren't valid as query names.
:::

* Write your query in the syntax valid for your [database type](/connect-data/reference/).

Queries are automatically saved, so you never lose your work. These changes are reflected in your *published* application only after you deploy. You can access a query's result *only* from the page it's a part of. To use a query on another page, click the context menu next to the query name and clone it.

## Run a query

Click the `Run` button or hit `cmd + enter` to execute a query. You'll see the results in the Response tab if the query succeeds.

 <VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="0xA7ChO7Rlk" title="Running a Query" caption="Running a Query"/>  

Alternatively, you can use the [run](/reference/appsmith-framework/query-object#run) function to execute a query anywhere in Appsmith.

All query results are stored in the [data](/reference/appsmith-framework/query-object#data) property of the [query object](/reference/appsmith-framework/query-object). It's immutable and can't be changed. You can access it using JavaScript, as shown in the code snippet below:

```javascript
{{ Query1.data }}
```

Queries fetch data in an array of objects where each object is a row, and each key in the object is a column. However, each widget property supports a specific data type. You can [transform the data](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/displaying-data-read#transform-data) from the query response to match the expected data structure in the property.

## Debug errors

When a query fails, Appsmith commonly shows a notification stating: `<query_name> action returned an error response `.

To see the error message returned by the datasource in response to your query, look for the failed query in the [debugger](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/#using-the-linter-and-debugger), or access it in code with `<query_name>.data`.

### Debug mode

By default, in the *View* Mode, you can't see any error messages raised by Appsmith. This ensures your app viewers don’t see error messages they would have minimal context about. 

If you want to see errors in the *View* and in the *Edit* mode, you can append `?debug=true` to your app's URL and reload the page. You can also always see the errors logged in the browser console.

## Use queries in applications

Once you have successfully run a Query, you can use it in your application to:

* [Display Data from a query](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/displaying-data-read) - Bind the query results to a widget to display the data.
* [Capture Data](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/capturing-data-write) - Capture the user input entered in a widget that can be referenced using JavaScript.
* Run multiple queries by separating the run statements with a `;`. Check out the sample app that shows [how to run multiple queries](https://app.appsmith.com/applications/61e4fd98eb0501052b9fc476/pages/62ab7a7e84b91337251afd40) on a button click.
* Pass parameters to a query in the run() function and access these parameters in the query. Check out the sample app that shows [how to pass parameters to the Query.run() function](https://app.appsmith.com/applications/61e4fd98eb0501052b9fc476/pages/628e64d47901344ba8d2a584).

## Troubleshooting
Do you need help with queries? Check out the [Query troubleshooting guide](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/query-errors) for the most common errors or reach out on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/rBTTVJp) to get support or ask questions on the [community forum](https://community.appsmith.com/).
